Jake: This job is eating me alive. I can't breathe anymore. I spent all these years trying to be the good guy, the man in the white hat. I'm not becoming like them. I am them.
Amy: Hey! What are you doing, weirdo?
Jake: I’m doing the best speech from Donnie Brasco. Or actually, ten of me are doing the best speech from Donnie Brasco. What's up?
Amy: Get it together, man. Okay? So the store was hit about two hours ago. They took mostly tablets, laptops, and cameras.
[Keyboard plays hip-hop beat]
[Music stops]
Jake: Sorry.
Amy: I’d like a list of all your employees, whoever had access to the store. I'd also like to apologize for my partner. His parents didn't give him enough attention.
Jake: Uh, Detective... I already solved the case. We're looking for three white males, one of whom has sleeve tats on both arms.
Amy: And how do you know that?
Jake: I had an informant on the inside. He's been here for years. Watching, learning. Waiting. His code name? Fuzzy Cuddle Bear. He's a nanny cam.
Amy: [Scoffs] You got lucky.
Jake: No, I got here five minutes before you and figured that in this gigantic electronics store, there had to be at least one working camera. Oh! Hi, bad guys! You did it, Fuzzy. You busted 'em. It's time to come home.  [As Fuzzy] I'm not sure if I can. I've been undercover so long, I've forgotten who I am. I have seen terrible things. I haven't known the touch of a woman in many moons.
Amy: All right.
Jake: [Normal voice] Detective Santiago! Don't walk away from me!

Jake: Yes, I did crack the case. So, Santiago, would you do the honors?
Amy: [Sighs]
All: Ohhh!
Amy: I hate this!
Jake: Ah, yeah.
Amy: I hate this.
Jake: And you're just gonna add one. I'm winning.
[Applause]
Jake: It's a good feeling. It's a good feeling. Yeah.
Amy: Enjoy it while it lasts.
Jake: I will!
Terry: JP, update on the Morgenthau murder?
Jake: Yeah! Good news for all you murder fans.
[Laughter]
Jake: Earlier this morning... Someone decided to shoot and kill luxury food importer Henry Morgenthau. Body was found by the cleaning lady, during her interview, I deduced, using expert detective work, that she had something super gross on her chin.
[Groans]
Charles: I think it was flan.
Jake: Charles thinks it was flan. I think it was butterscotch pudding.
Rosa: Maybe it was just old person gunk. You know how old people always have that gunk on them.
Jake: Oldie gunk. Could be, yeah. Anyone else?
Terry: How about we focus on the murder and not the old person gunk?
Amy: Crime techs are at the scene now. We're heading back when they're done.
Terry: Okay, I want you on this. It's gonna be priority one for the new C.O.
Rosa: Wait, tell us about the new Captain.
Terry: Captain Holt will be here soon. He'll wanna introduce himself. Dismissed.

Charles: Hey, Gina. You know any scalpers? I wanna ask Rosa to go to the Rihanna concert with me, but it's sold out.
Gina: Okay, two points to make here. First, Rihanna... You... And then Rihanna.
Charles: Yeah. What's your second point?
Gina: She's got a type. Which is really anyone but you.
Charles: Yeah, that was my ex-wife's type too.
Gina: Look, a Rihanna concert's a pretty big swing, man. I don't know. She's into watching old movies.
Charles: Cool. Where would I find a place that shows old movies?
Gina: Oh, yeah, just go on the lnternet and search for the phrase "I want to buy two movie tickets for a girl who doesn't like me."
Charles: Great.
Gina: Good.
Charles: Thank you.

Amy: Hey, you heard anything about the new Captain?
Jake: Uh, no, and I don't care. I just wish Captain McGintley never left, he was the best.
Amy: He was terrible. You just liked him 'cause he let you do anything you wanted.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Jake: On your marks, get set...
Male Character: Go.
McGintley: What the hell's going on around here?
Jake: Fire extinguisher roller chair derby?
McGintley: Okay.
Rosa: And go!
[Laughter]
Jake: Yeah!
END FLASHBACK.
Jake: What's your point?
Amy: If I'm ever gonna make Captain, I need a good mentor. I need my rabbi.
Jake: Sorry, dude... But this new guy's gonna be another washed-up pencil pսshеr who's only concerned with… [Robotically] Following every rule in the patrol guide. Meep morp zeep. Robot Captain Engage.
Holt: Is that what you think?
Jake: He-hey! New Captain alert. [Laughs] You must be the new C.O. I'm Detective Jake Peralta. Great to meet you.
Holt: Now don't let me interrupt. You were describing what kind of person I'm gonna be. I'd like you to finish.
Jake: [Sighs] That's not necessary. Or I could recap very quickly, sure. Um, let's see. I think I said some joke about being a washed-up pencil pսshеr.
Holt: Now do the robot voice.
Jake: Which...
Holt: The robot voice you were doing when you implied I'm a rule-following robot. I wanna hear it again.
Jake: Meep morp... zarp. Robot.
Holt: That's a terrible robot voice.
Jake: Yep.
Holt: The next time I see you, I'd like you to be wearing a necktie.
Jake: Oh, actually, the last Captain didn't care if we wore ties.
Holt: Well, your new Captain does. And more importantly, he cares that you follow his direct orders. Everyone, I'm your new commanding officer, Captain Ray Holt.
Amy: Speech!
Holt: That was my speech.
Amy: Short and sweet.
Holt: Sergeant Jeffords, a word.
Terry: Yes, sir.
Amy: [Sighs] I love that guy.
Jake: Same!
Gina: He's so suave. Does anyone get a little bit of a gay vibe? No? Okay.

Holt: Sergeant, you were in the 1-8 with me... Though you were significantly...
Terry: Fatter, sir. They called me "Terry tіttіеs." Because I had large, uh...
Ray: Tіttіеs, yes. I remember. I never liked that nickname. Though to be fair, it was accurate. What's this I hear about you being on administrative leave?
Terry: A year ago, my wife and I had twin baby girls. Cagney and Lacey.
Jake: They have adorable chubby cheeks.
Terry: Ever since, I kinda got scared of getting hurt. Lost my edge. There was an incident in a department store.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Jake: [Whispers] Hey, man, you okay? You look a little jumpy.
Terry: I’m fine. I'm fine.
[Clanging]
Terry: [Screaming] Ahhh!
Jake: [Normal voice] I think he's dead.
END FLASHBACK.
Terry: And I'm still not right.
Holt: Tell me about your detective squad.
Terry: [Clears throat] Um... Well, Scully, Hitchcock, and Daniels. They're pretty much worthless, but they make good coffee.
Holt: Copy that.
Terry: Now the good ones. Rosa Diaz. Tough, smart, hard to read, and really scary.
Rosa: [Grunts]
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Rosa: Tell me who has me for Secret Santa.
Hitchcock: No! That takes all the fun out of it. It's Scully. He got you a scarf. I'll make him return it.
Rosa: Yes, you will.
END FLASHBACK.
Terry: Charles Boyle. He's a grinder. Not the most brilliant detective, but he works harder than anyone else. He's not physically… gifted.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Charles: Oh, man! My muffin. Ahh! Oh, my head! My muffin, my head! And I stepped on the... On my muffin! And my head and my muffin.
END FLASHBACK.
Terry: Amy Santiago. She's got seven brothers, so she's always trying to prove she's tough.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Scully: Careful. That stuff's pretty hot.
Amy: Oh, is it? Hmm?
END FLASHBACK.
Terry: She and Peralta have some big bet over who gets more arrests this year. Ever since the bet, their numbers have gone way up.
Holt: Tell me about Peralta.
Terry: Jacob Peralta is my best detective. He likes putting away bad guys and he loves solving puzzles. The only puzzle he hasn't solved is how to grow up.
Holt: That was very well put.
Terry: I’ve talked a lot about Jake in my departmentally mandated therapy sessions.
Holt: Look, you know my history. You know how important this is to me. This precinct is doing fine, but I want to make it the best one in Brooklyn. And I need your help.
Terry: Absolutely, sir. Where do we start?
Jake: [Singing] What is happening?
Holt: We start with him.

Jake: Okay, so the perp came in through the window, left the muddy red footprint, and apparently had sеx with the dish rack.
Amy: Shell casing found here. Two shots. Bang, bang.
Jake: Great work, Detective. You get a tie.
Charles: Hey, that's mine. You took it from my desk.
Jake: That's right, Charles. Good solve. Tie for you.
Charles: Thanks!
Jake: Now everyone be sure to put those on because it's impossible to solve crimes unless you're wearing a tie.
Amy: Lay off the captain. That man is gonna be my rabbi.
Jake: Okay, first of all, when you use the word "rabbi," you know that turns me on and that's unfair in the work environment. Secondly, your rabbi is a pain in my ass.
Charles: Yeah, he's a little too serious. What do you think, Rosa?
Rosa: He seems cool.
Charles: Yeah, he seems cool. I agree.
Rosa: Looks like the perp stole a computer, a watch, and a Jamon lberico ham, valued at... what! $6,000.
Jake: $6,000 for a ham?
Charles: Jamon lberico is an amazing cured ham from Spain. They had it at my uncle's funeral. I gorged myself at that funeral. I mean, I was constipated for three days.
Jake: Wow, that's a great story, Charles, thank you.
Charles: [Laughs]
Jake: All right, listen up, everybody. Better contact Captain Holt, let him know we got a ten-tie situation.
Holt: Speaking of ties, where's yours, meep morp?
Jake: This is fantastic. Captain! Hey! Welcome to the murder. What are you doing here?
Holt: I like to know what my detectives are up to. That okay by you?
Jake: Yep.
Holt: Take Santiago and knock on doors. See if the neighbors heard anything.
Jake: Door duty? It's a waste of time.
Holt: Diaz and Boyle. Check in the coroner. Report back to me in an hour.
Jake: [Sighs] That went well.
Holt: No, it didn't.
Jake: He's got like super hearing.

Charles: Hey, Rosa! Rosa. Rosa! Um, I just happened to notice that there's an old movie festival playing at the film forum this week. Wanna go?
Rosa: Sure.
Charles: Cool! Awesome. There's a bunch of movie options. I'll probably just go with something classic like Citizen Kane.
Rosa: Citizen Kane is terrible. Pick a good movie.
Charles: Good call. Smart. I'll do it. I'll pick a better movie than Citizen Kane.

Holt: So Gina... Civilian administrators like yourself often have their ear to the ground. What do Santiago and Peralta have riding on this bet of theirs?
Gina: I will tell you on six conditions. Number one, you let me use your office to practice my dance moves. Second-
Holt: How about this? If you tell me...
Gina: Mm-hmm.
Holt: I won't have you suspended... Without pay.
Gina: Oh, that sounds great. Okay, the deal is if Amy gets more arrests, Jake has to give her his car. It's an old Mustang, and it's pretty sweet. If he gets more arrests, she has to go on a date with him. He guarantees it will end in sеx. I bet on at least some over-the-clothes action. At the very least, some touching...
Holt: No, that's enough, Gina.
Gina: Caresses. I could see him showing up in a silk robe.
Holt: That's enough, Gina.
Gina: All right.
Holt: Thank you.

Jake: Let the wasting of time begin.
Amy: Hello, sir. Can we ask you a few questions?
Tenant 1: Definitely. Yeah. I'm actually... I'm super glad you guys are here right now. Are you smelling that weed smell?
Jake and Amy: [In unison] Yeah.
Tenant 1: ‘Cause a dude broke in, smoked weed, and bolted. [Laughs] It's...
Jake: Do you think it's the same dude that left that bong there on the floor?
Tenant 1: Yes.
Jake: Police!
Amy: Hello.
Mlepnos: Hello.
Amy: What's your name?
Mlepnos: My name?
Amy: Mm-hmm.
Mlepnos: Mlepnos.
Amy: Can you spell that, please?
Mlepnos: M-l-e-p… Clay.
Amy: Did you say "Clay"?
Mlepnos: Yes, the "Clay" is silent.
Amy: All right, got it. Have you seen this man before? He was shot last night.
Mlepnos: Oh. Thank you.
Amy: No, sir, that's ours. We need that. We...
Jake: And he kept it.
Amy: Wall Street journal on the doormat... Top floor apartment. 20 bucks says this guy's like a hot, eligible bachelor.
Jake: I’ll take that action. Police! Open up!
Tenant 2: Hello.
Jake: [Laughs] Oh! Hello, sir! How are you today? I am Detective Right-All-The-Time, and this is my partner Detective Terrible Detective.

Charles: No surprises from the coroner. A few gunshots, shoulder and chest.
Jake: None of the neighbors heard or saw anything. And what's worse, Santiago struck out with a 92-year-old.
Amy: That is not accurate, sir.
Jake: Wait, you hooked up with him? Ugh!
Captain: All right, hit the pawn shops and canvass the neighborhood. And while you're out, you can buy yourself a tie.
Jake: Oh, actually, sir... I'm wearing a tie right now. Check it out. Secret tie.
Holt: First of all, I think you're kind of overdoing it with the manscaping. But more importantly, Detective, why do you refuse to take my orders seriously? Does anyone here know why it's so important to me that you all dress appropriately? Hmm. Four highly trained detectives and not one of you can solve this simple mystery. ‘Kay, I want to be briefed on any new developments. Any questions?
Jake: I was gonna ask you if you thought I was doing too much manscaping, but we solved that one.
Charles: Mm-hmm.
Jake: So I'm good. Hey, Boyle.
Charles: Yep.
Jake: What about this fancy ham stuff?
Charles: Jamon lberico.
Jake: Yes. The perp left a really expensive TV but then stole ham? It doesn't make sense. Is there a place nearby the crime scene that sells it?
Charles: Beneficio's might.
Jake: Let's go.
Charles: You gotta brief the C.O. first.
Jake: We'll brief him after we catch the guy.

Ratko: My name is Ratko. I don't know anything.
Jake: Oh, okay. You recognize this guy? Henry Morgenthau?
Ratko: No.
Jake: Maybe actually look at the picture.
Ratko: I don't know him. I don't know what happened. No more questions.
Jake: Well, why don't I run a scenario past you, Ratko, and you tell me what you think? You do know Morgenthau. He came in here and tried to sell you some hams. You knew they were worth a lot of  money, so you tried to steal them from him when he wasn't home. Only he was home, so you shot him. Does that sound familiar? Uh, maybe some role play will jog your memory?
Charles: Great idea.
Jake: Okay, yeah.
Charles: [Whispers] Okay. [Normal voice] So I'm... I'm Ratko.
Jake: No, no, I'm Ratko.
Charles: [Whispers] Come on. I'm always the victim.
Jake: [Whispers] Look, I'm doing this with you right here.
Charles: [Normal voice] Fine, fine.
Jake: [Clears throat]
Charles: Oh! I'm Henry Morgenthau, owner of delicious and expensive hams. Don't I know you from the grocery store?
Jake: Kill! And scene.
[Clanging]
Jake: NYPD! Everyone down! Ma'am, if you could just get down, or... ignore me and continue shopping. Boyle, get the door!
Charles: On it!
Jake: Ratko!
Ratko: [Grunts]
Jake: Oh! Ow!
[Jake and Ratko grunting]
Jake: Ha ha ha! Ow, Ratko, ow!
Charles: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Ratko!
Jake: I’m getting mad!
Charles: That's a waste of manchego!
Jake: Charles! How are you still here?
Charles: [High-pitched voice] Jake! Little help! Ratko! He's not going anywhere, Jake!
Jake: Ratko! I got him! I got him! Don't worry!

Jake: So no, I did not brief you. And yes, he did get away. But some bonus good news... I got you hazelnut. [Whispers] And... A little spoon there for you.

Jake: [Scoffs] Is he seriously assigning me to the records room? I mean, why do we even have a records room? Computer's been invented, right? I didn't dream it?
Terry: You're lucky, man. I wish I could get assigned here full-time. You could not be farther from the action.
Jake: Sergeant, you know me. I have more arrests than anyone. Will you please tell the Captain how dumb it is to lock his best detective in a file cabinet?
Amy: Second best.
Terry: You're wrong about Holt. That man has forgotten more about being a cop than you will ever know. In 1981, he caught the Disco Strangler.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Holt: It's over, Disco Man! Put down the yo-yo and back away from the girl.
END FLASHBACK.
Jake: Wow.
Terry: The man is the real deal. You need to listen to him.
Amy: Gonna be hard to win our bet when you're on the bench, Peralta. Although I did start a new category. "Murderers we let go." And look at that. You're winning. Have fun with your files.
Jake: Yeah, you know what, I will have fun with my files. Have fun with your face! Slam! That was a slam.

Rosa: So what movie did you get us tickets to?
Charles: Oh, well, just to be safe, I bought tickets to all of them.
Rosa: Just to be safe? What does that mean?
Charles: I don't know, I didn't wanna mess up. Because you're sort of... Opinionated.
Rosa: You think I'm opinionated? Okay, here's an opinion for you. You're a bad judge of character and your shirt looks like vomit.
Charles: So we can go see North by Northwest.
Rosa: We're not seeing a movie together.
Charles: Good call. Smart. Keep it profesh.
Gina: [Blows raspberries] [Mimics explosion]

Jake: Hey, Captain.
Holt: So you found something? Hey, I like the tie.
Jake: If you can't beat 'em, join 'em. Anyway, I think I got something good here. Turns out the name "Ratko" is made up. But I was digging through these files... One of which I literally found in a spider web... And it turns out there were a bunch of references to a serbian thug, street names “The “Rat and “The Butcher,” who's known to hang out at a storage unit near Boerum Park, which has red soil, hence, the muddy red footprint on Morgenthau's counter.
Holt: That's fine work, Detective.
Jake: Thank you very much, sir. Testament to what can be achieved when you dress appropriately. Let's pound it out.
Holt: You know what, such fine police work, let's share it with the whole team. Santiago! Boyle! Diaz! Get in here! Bring everyone! And a camera!
Jake: That's not necessary.
Holt: Let’s have a hand for the work…
Jake: Oh, they're here!
Holt: …Of the fine master Detective, Jake Peralta. Yeah, let's have a hand, everyone. Give him a hand.
Rosa: Yeah, nice!
[Cheers and applause]
[Wolf whistle]
Amy: Looking good!
Jake: Yeah. Thank you.

Amy: No record of Ratko on the ledger. Must've used cash.
Jake: Well, I, for one, am just pumped to be on a stakeout with you, Captain. You know what my favorite thing about stakeouts is? Patrol guide says "no dress code." So I'm just the zip-up hoodie and my two best friends.
Holt: Does he always talk this much?
Amy: I just tune it out. It's like a white noise machine.
Jake: Okay, first of all, that's racist. Secondly, Captain, Terry told me you caught the Disco Strangler. That's incredible. I've read that case. With all due respect, sir, why'd it take you so long to get your first command?
Holt: Because I'm gay.
Jake: [Chuckles] Ah. Seriously?
Holt: I’m surprised you didn't know. I don't try to hide it.
BEGIN FLASHBACK MONTAGE:
Gina: Did anyone else get a little bit of a gay vibe?
Holt: [Slowed down] Manscaping.
END FLASHBACK MONTAGE.
Jake: Damn! I am not a good detective.

Rosa: Here. I feel bad that you spent all that money on the movie tickets.
Charles: Why don't you just go to the movies with me?
Rosa: Nope.
Charles: Okay. Well, this is awkward.
Rosa: It's not awkward. I like your company. You're sweet.

Amy: When did you come out?
Holt: About 25 years ago. The NYPD was not ready for an openly gay detective. But then the old guard died out. Suddenly, they couldn't wait to show off the fact that they had a highly ranking gay officer. I made Captain. But they put me in a public affairs unit. I was a good soldier. I helped recruitment. But all I ever really wanted was my own command. And now I finally got it. And I'm not gonna screw it up.
Jake: Captain, I'm sorry. I... I feel like a jackass. [Sighs] But on the flip side, there's Ratko. Humility over. I'm amazing!

Jake: Fantastic. 3,000 identical blue doors.
Holt: Looks like we all got door duty.
Jake: Ah, yeah. From before. Good one. You look great.
Holt: Clear. Clear.
Amy: [Sighs] Okay. Unbelievable! Un-believable!
Jake: Ah. Ratko, great to see you.
Ratko: You can't stop me. I'm going.
Jake: Actually, you're not going anywhere. 'Cause if you take a look to your left, you'll see Detectives Boyle and Diaz. Right there is Detective Santiago. And behind you is Captain Holt. Point is... My team has you surrounded. Oh, my God, I just got the tie thing! Captain, I just figured it out.
Holt: Maybe now's not the best time, Detective.
Jake: It's a uniform! We're a team, and the tie is a part of that team's uniform, right?
Ratko: You ask Ratko what team?
Jake: No, Ratko, shut up. It's important to you because you were kept off the team for so long. And now you're the coach, and you want us to all wear that same uniform. Boom! Nailed it!
Holt: Yes, you did. Now just arrest Ratko.
Jake: All right, Ratko, down. Drop the weapon. Hands on your head. Here we go.
Holt: Hey!
Jake: He's running!
Ratko: Oh!
Amy: Got him!
Rosa: Hands behind your back! Hands behind your back!
Charles: Stay down.
Jake: That's how we do it in the Nine-Nine, sir. Catch bad guys and look good doing it.
Holt: What's wrong with you?
Jake: Never took off the speedo. Big mistake. It is inside me. Great work, team!

Jake: Ah, Captain. You're at my desk. Just what I wanna see first thing in the morning.
Holt: You're three minutes late, Peralta.
Jake: Not my fault. I had a plumbing problem.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Jake: [Groans]
[Splash]
END FLASHBACK.
Jake: Which reminds me, I'm gonna need a new departmentally issued phone. Oh, come on, really? I'm a few minutes late, so you're gonna call me out in front of everyone?
Holt: Good idea. Everyone? Gather round, so I can call out Peralta in front of you.
Jake: Okay, fine. I was three minutes late. I'm sorry for doing one thing wrong.
Holt: Oh, it's more than one thing.
Jake: Uh-oh.
Holt: Let's start with the Kristov murder.
Jake: It was an amazing solve. I got him to confess in 20 minutes.
Holt: You also mislabeled the evidence, so that confession is worthless if the sergeant hadn't caught your mistake. Here are three cases with sloppy paperwork. Here are two pictures. One is your locker. The other is a garbage dump in the Philippines. Can you tell which is which?
Jake: That one's the dump?
Holt: They're both your locker.
Jake: Gah, I should've guessed that. He's good.
Holt: This folder is labeled "undies, dirty.”
Jake: So I won't confuse it with "undies, clean." Also, who cares about all these rules? I have more felony arrests than any other detective here.
Holt: You also have more mice living in your desk than any other detective.
Jake: [Gasps] Algernon.
[All aww]
Jake: You guys, Algernon's back.
Holt: Get rid of the mouse, and get your act together now.
Jake: [Whispers] He's grumpy.

Terry: Okay, detectives, let's get started. Santiago, where are we with the Jay Street drug bust?
Amy: There are 12 keys of coke unaccounted for, but we just got a warrant to search the dealer's apartment.
Terry: Good. Take Boyle and Diaz.
Charles: Dream team.
Terry: Peralta, brief us on the vandalism case.
Jake: Well, there's no easy way to put this, Sarge, but someone has been painting wieners on squad cars.
[Laughter]
Jake: And apparently, they won't stop until there's a penis drawn on every cop car in Brooklyn.
Hitchcock: Oh, that's what he's been drawing. But what are those little round things at the bottom?
Scully: That's the butt.
Jake: The butt?
Holt: I assume you have a plan to catch this gentleman.
Jake: Did you just say "genital-man"? Because if so, kudos, and yes, I have a plan. I'm gonna plant a decoy squad car as bait. Meanwhile, I'll be waiting in an undercover vehicle here. He's already tagged three U/C vehicles.
Terry: He can clearly spot 'em. You should take my minivan.
Rosa: A minivan? A-ha!
[Laughter]
Terry: You all got a problem with my minivan?
[Laughter stops]
Terry: ‘Cause my wife doesn't like it either. She wanted an SUV, but those things roll, man. They roll!
Holt: That's a good idea, Sergeant. We'll take the van.
Jake: We? You're coming with me? Sir, with all due respect, I don't need backup.
Holt: It's not backup. It's babysitting.
Rosa: Babysitting. Ha-ha!

Charles: Oh, look at this. The drug dealer got a B.A. in art history from Brooklyn college. Interesting, huh?
Rosa: How's that interesting?
Charles: Well, it's surprising because you would think he had studied... drugs.
Amy: I studied art history too.
Rosa: Also not interesting.
Gina: Excuse me. I know I'm just a lowly civilian administrator, but I couldn't help overhearing you're looking for some missing drugs? As it turns out, my friend here, Carlene, is a psychic, and she's ready to help you.
Carlene: I do palms, tarot, and I have a degree in numerology from the internet.
Rosa: Ugh. Really, Gina? A psychic?
Gina: What? She's the real deal. E.G., last week, she predicted I would have a sensuous encounter with a guy named Mark. And I did.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Gina: Is anyone here named Mark? You're good.
END FLASHBACK.
Gina: Okay, she's had visions which, frankly, science cannot account for. Also, she can get you amazing deals on ladies' footwear. She's assistant manager at Leonard's designer shoes.
Carlene: Vision. The drugs are in a location. I see the color blue...
Gina: She sees blue.
Carlene: And yellow. And I see the letters L, R, S, T, W, E, and B.
Amy: So basically, everyone's first eight guesses in hangman?
Rosa: Thank you, Carlene. Your entire life is garbage.

Jake: So Holt's coming on my stakeout now? I made a mixtape with some very explicit rap on it, and now I can't sing along.
Terry: You made a mixtape?
Jake: Yes, I still listen to cassettes. This guy is all over me. I mean, a Captain on a minor vandalism case? It's insane.
Terry: What's insane is how you refuse to get with the program. There is a new sheriff in town, Jake.
Jake: Well, I like the old sheriff. I mean, McGintley wouldn't care about a messy desk or all these stupid rules.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
All: Tase, tase, tase, tase, tase...
McGintley: Hey! What the hell's going on here?
Jake: Science experiment. I wanna see what happens if I taser this cantaloupe.
McGintley: Okay.
All: Tase, tase, tase, tase, tase...
Jake: Ah!
All: Oh! Yeah!
[Cheers and applause]
END FLASHBACK.
Jake: And McGintley wouldn't care if I was three minutes late 'cause he was always an hour late and hungover, and he would let you do literally anything you want if you gave him a hamburger.
Terry: Did he let you play your mixtape?
Jake: Okay. That's very funny.
Terry: Get an iPod, man. Mixtape?

Charles: I just want to apologize for my fellow detectives’ behavior. Okay, my granny also had the gift.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Granny: I feel that I will die soon.
END FLASHBACK.
Charles: She was right. She died two years later.
Carlene: Your sincere belief in my gift means a great deal. Vision. The woman you love, the one you work with, the scary one with the black hair...
Charles: Rosa. Yes?
Carlene: She doesn't love you back. She will never love you back.
Gina: Say "thank you," Charles. She just told you your future.
Charles: Thank you.

Jake: You left without me.
Holt: You were late again.
Jake: Well, I had to put on my undercover minivan disguise. Say hello to Harvey Norgenbloom, CPA, recently divorced father of two with a dark sexual secret. What's your cover?
Holt: Angry Captain.
Jake: Okay, so you do not like my ensemble.
Holt: I'm just concerned that you may find it hard to pursue a criminal on foot while wearing man sandals.
Jake: But the sandals define Harvey. He's a sandals guy. [Sighs] Captain, why the babysitting? Why are you micromanaging me?
Holt: [Tsks] You think I wanna be sitting here with you instead of running my precinct?
Jake: Yes.
Holt: It was a rhetorical question. I've spent the last 12 years fighting for my first command, and I'm not gonna let you screw it up because you refuse to take your job seriously.
Jake: Hey, I do take my job seriously. I put away bad guys. That's what matters.
Holt: Well, so does doing your paperwork, showing up on time, wearing proper footwear.
Jake: That's on Harvey. That's not me.
Holt: Well, so here's the deal. You're gonna have a superior officer babysitting you on every one of your cases. And when you show me that you can do your job... Every part of your job... Perfectly, then I'll back off.
Jake: Okay. Counteroffer. I give you 50 bucks, and you let me do whatever I want. Fine. We'll do it your way. From this point on, I'll do every part of the job perfectly, perfecter than perfectly.
Holt: It's "more perfectly." You said that imperfectly.
Jake: I was testing you. You did perfectly. Quick update on the tagger situation... He is currently spray-painting our van right now.
Holt: Police, freeze!
Jake: Ow, ow, ow. Sandal down. Lost a sandal.
Holt: NYPD, freeze!
Jake: I’m here. You're busted.
Holt: Already got him.
Jake: We got him.

Jake: Oh, hey, Captain. Hi, so I was able to procure that $50 after all, and my offer still stands. Let me do whatever I want, and the $40... That's how much I actually have... is yours. No? Fair enough. I only had 30 anyways. Well, I guess in order to get you to stop micromanaging me, I'm gonna have to get back to the most important piece of police work there is: Writing a perfect report.
Holt: Good, I'm anxious to read it.
Jake: And I'm anxious to restore my status as a lone wolf. [Howls]
Holt: Anything else, Detective?
Jake: Yeah, I'm gonna do one more. [Howls] Lone wolf. He's digging me. [Clicks tongue] Hey, Sarge, do you know where we keep the glitter? Just wanna make sure this report for the Captain is extra sparkly.
Terry: What are you doing, Peralta?
Jake: Look, if I have to do things his way, I'm gonna do them my way.
Terry: [Laughs] Okay, man. It was nice working with you.
Jake: I'm not scared of him, okay? I'm not scared of anyone. Oh, also, The Tagger drew a penis on your minivan. I'm sorry. Please don't chase after me.
Terry: What? There's a penis on my minivan?

Amy: High ceilings, three bedrooms. Why does every perp have a nicer place than I do?
Rosa: You know what they don't teach you at the academy? It's better to be a criminal.
Charles: Oh, no. The cabinets are blue.
Amy: Tacky. Not a deal breaker, though. I'd just repaint it.
Charles: The psychic predicted the drugs would be found in something blue.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Carlene: [Slowed down] I see the color blue.
END FLASHBACK.
Charles: She also made this really depressing prediction about my life.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Carlene: [Slowed down] She will never love you back.
END FLASHBACK.
Charles: And if she's right about where we find the drugs, that means she's right about the other thing.
Amy: Uh-huh. Kitchen. Whoa. Jackpot. There's way more than 12 keys in here.
Rosa: Where was it?
Amy: Baseboard, behind the hamper.
Charles: What color was the hamper?
Amy: Green.
Charles: Yes. The clothes hamper was green. The clothes hamper was green! Drinks on me.
Rosa: [Laughs] You're weird.

Jake: Sorry this is taking so long. Still writing up my report. Pretty detailed. Hey, Gina, can you look up what the humidity was about an hour ago and also what moon cycle we're in?
Gina: No, sorry. Don't feel like it, no.
Jake: Thanks, Gina. And now to you. What's your name?
Trevor: My name is Banana Fartman, MD.
Jake: I don't believe you. Come on, man. Just tell me who you are. I need to fill this thing out perfectly, so my boss will get off my back. Are you a minor? How old are you?
Trevor: I'm 610. I'm a highlander.
Jake: Okay, you know what? I'm gonna put that in there. And then you're gonna be tried as an adult highlander. And they're gonna cut your head off. Is that what you want?

Charles: I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but your psychic friend's predictions about the drug case were wrong, which means all of her predictions are wrong.
Gina: Mm-mm. No way. She's never wrong.
Charles: We found the cocaine behind a green hamper. Never said “green” or the letter H.
Gina: Mm-hmm, she said "blue" and "yellow," Charles. I don't know if there's any kindergarteners present, but those two colors combined make green. She also mentioned the letters L and B, and another name for a hamper is...
Charles: Lady bin?
Gina: Laundry basket. Oh, little boo-boo. Can you go be depressed over there? You're bumming out my whole area.

Terry: Baby, I've got some bad news. Someone painted a giant penis on our minivan. No, you cannot have an SUV now. Those things roll, baby. They roll!

Jake: Hey, look at this. Your prints were on file. Nice to meet you, Trevor Podolski. Oh, Podolski, just like Deputy Police Commissioner Podolski. Your father is Deputy Police Commissioner Podolski.
Trevor: I’m not sure how things work here, but does that mean that your career is in my hands?
Jake: Okay, you know what? Yes.

Amy: 20.2 kilos. I feel like we could round up to 21.
Gina: Or we could round down to 20, take the extra 0.2, sell it to our friends. [Giggles]
Amy: I’ll call the D.A. Rosa, you log this in. Charles, maybe watch Gina.
Gina: [Giggles]
Rosa: So what are you doing tonight?
Charles: Nothing. What about you... are doing tonight?
Rosa: Nothing.
Gina: [Whispers] Carlene.
Charles: Whelp, I hope you find something to do. [Chuckles] I’m gonna pee. That’s what I’m doing tonight. No.

Holt: Deputy Commissioner’s son, huh? His decision to target cop cars makes a lot more sense now.
Jake: We gotta let him walk, right?
Holt: He defaced nine police vehicles, and you caught him red-handed. Why would you let him walk?
Jake: [Chuckles] Captain, I did all the work on this perfectly. I mean, my report has over 25 pages of meticulous research, diagrams, and maps. I even put an “About the Author” section on the back. I did everything you asked me to do. But this is above my pay grade. You gotta make the call.
Holt: You’re the arresting office. It’s your call. I told you to do every part of your job, and making this call is part of your job.
Jake: Yeah, but you think I should process him.
Holt: Mm-hmm.
Jake: Well, if I do, the Deputy Commissioner could ruin my career, and I’ll end up on the streets selling my beautiful body for a can of beans.
Holt: Mm-hmm.
Jake: Has anyone ever told you you look exactly like a statue?
Holt: Yes.

Charles: Man, you were totally right about the cocaine, and you were also right about Rosa.
Carlene: Who’s Rosa?
Charles: The woman I-
Gina: The woman who doesn’t love him back.
Carlene: Oh.
Charles: Yes, that woman.
Carlene: You know, it can be a burden to always know what’s gonna happen in the future. Don’t get out of the chair! I just had a vision of you leaving this chair and getting seriously injured.
Charles: Oh, my god.
Gina: I should probably wheel you back to your desk.
Carlene: That is a great idea.
Gina: Wheel you off a bridge. [Laughs] I’m kidding. [Singing] Oh, you’re alone. Uh-oh, you’re alone for life.

Jake: So here are my options. One, I process Podolski’s kid, he fires me, and I spend the rest of my career as a detective, third grade, which is literally pathetic. No offense, Hitchcock.
Hitchcock: None taken.
Jake: Option two, I let him walk, and I spend the rest of my life with Holt as my babysitter. Honestly, when I think about spending the rest of my life with a babysitter, she’s kind of a cute blonde named Erica, and she always has pizza money and lets me stay up as late as I want.
Amy: How old are you in this scenario?
Jake: Anyway, the point is Holt cares more about whether I “do my job right” than whether I have a job at all. So I’m taking suggestions.
Amy: I say piss off Holt, so we get to watch your career end right in front of us.
Jake: Okay, thank you for that, Santiago. I’m gonna put you down for “don’t arrest,” and I’m also going to put your phone number on every urinal in Rikers.
Rosa: Don’t arrest him. Just smack him. Hard. With a phone book on a body part no one can see, you know what I’m saying?
Jake: So you’re suggesting police brutality?
Rosa: Ha, ha, I guess so, yeah. Why?
Jake: Hey, Scully.
Scully: Yeah?
Jake: You want this collar? Paperwork’s all done, and it’s perfect.
Scully: The Podolski kid? Are you kidding? I just gave him my lunch.
Jake: Okay. Boyle, what do you think?
Charles: I don’t know, man. I’m lost. The universe is a cruel and vexing puzzle. I-I’m at the whim of the cosmos.
Jake: Alright, I’m gonna put you down for “bummer.” And you can hang out in that category all by yourself.
Gina: Hey, everyone. Hey, Jake, there is a very sexy, angry official here, Deputy Commissioner Podolski. He’s asking for you. Very angry. Elderly, sexy, furious.
Jake: Well, my career is over. See you at the bottom, Hitchcock. No offense.
Hitchcock: No, none taken.

Jake: Deputy Commissioner.
Podolski: Where’s my son?
Jake: He is at my desk, enjoying a nice glass of bubbly water and some chocolate I was saving for a special occasion.
Amy: Hey, Peralta, when you’re done, can you help me wrap up this massive cocaine bust I just pulled off? Thanks. Oh, Deputy Commissioner, didn’t see you there. Sorry for interrupting. Amy Santiago.
Podolski: Trevor, what’d you do this time?
Trevor: Nothing.
Podolski: There you have it. He said he did nothing.
Jake: So I caught him red-handed doing nothing?
Podolski: I’m saying maybe it’s a possibility you made a mistake.
Jake: You know, normally, I would agree with you, but I’ve been pretty detail-oriented the last few hours.
Podolski: You might not understand this, but Trevor is a special kid. He makes straight A’s. He’s going to Duke next year. Lacrosse scholarship.
Jake: Oh.
Podolski: Sometimes, boys just need to be boys.
Jake: You do realize he did thousands of dollars worth of property damage, though, to police vehicles.
Podolski: Look, I think we can all agree that I’m ordering you to let this slide because nothing happened. This is officially out of your hands.
Jake: Would you actually mind just checking out my report? It’s pretty thorough, and I spent over an hour on fonts. Kinda snazzy, so…
Podolski: Oh, thank you. I’ll get right to it.
Jake: Thanks.
Podolski: Trevor, let’s go.
Jake: Have a good one.

Charles: Choo. Yes.
Rosa: What’s up with the chair?
Charles: Um, Carlene predicted if I get out of this chair, I’d get badly hurt, so I’m not chancing it. Oh, man. There’s no more pudding cups left. Ah! What’d you do that for?
Rosa: There. Now you’re hurt in this chair. You can get hurt anywhere, Boyle. And if you do, it won’t be because some shoe salesman predicted it. You make your own destiny.

Jake: Well, we don’t have to worry about Podolski’s son anymore. The case is officially out of my hands. No charges filed.
Holt: Why is there yogurt on this?
Jake: The Deputy Commissioner threw my report in Terry’s trash can, and he’d been eating yogurt earlier.
Holt: Terry loves yogurt. Something wrong?
Jake: Kinda, yeah. I called six precincts about this kid. He’s been brought in a dozen times. Theft, vandalism, drunken disorderly, but he’s never been processed. His daddy comes in and bails him out every time. He’s a lucky little jerk.
Holt: No, I wouldn’t say he was lucky. I feel bad for this kid. I mean, what kind of father cares so little for his son that he lets him get away with everything? Well, he’s someone else’s problem now. Like you said, it’s out of your hands.
Jake: Alright, I see what you’re trying to do, but it’s not gonna work. I’m not going to arrest him. I’m going to arrest him!
Holt: You want backup?
Jake: Yes.

Podolski: What is this? You can’t do this. Get that thing out of here.
Jake: Excuse me, sir. Trevor Podolski, you’re under arrest for vandalism and destruction of property.
Trevor: What- Dad!
Podolski: What are you doing? I told you to back off, Peralta.
Jake: First off, the name’s Santiago, Detective Amy Santiago. Second, I’m arresting your son, which, as I say it aloud, seems like an unwise choice, but it’s the one I’m making. Once again, my name is Amy Santiago.
Podolski: You’re being stupid, Peralta. Don’t be stupid. I can make your life miserable.
Holt: Commissioner, please don’t talk to my detective in that tone. If you have a complaint, you can take it up with me.
Podolski: You just made yourself a very powerful enemy, Holt. I’m gonna be watching you, both of you, like a hawk.
Holt: You’re gonna have to try a little harder if you wanna scare me. I’ve been an openly gay cop since 1987, so you’re not the first superior officer to threaten me. You know how I’m still standing here? ‘Cause I do my job, and I do it right.
Jake: Damn, son!
Holt: Don’t say “son.”
Jake: Sorry. Deputy Commissioner, if you wanna pick Trevor up, he’ll be at the Nine-Nine. Let’s go, Fartman.
Charles: Carlene was wrong, Gina. Rosa said it herself-- I’m in charge of my own destiny. That means she wants me to make a move.
Gina: Mm, but Carlene was also right. You did get hurt ‘cause Rosa punched you. And the fact that Rosa punched you means she does not like you.
Charles: No, no, she punched me to prove Carlene wrong.
Rosa: Move.
Gina: Oh, wait, I take it back. She definitely is into you. So much chemistry.
Charles: I know, it’s crazy.
Holt: Alright, let’s get this meeting started.
Jake: I’m not late. I’m here. Right on time.
Holt: You’re out of uniform, Peralta.
Jake: Baby steps, Captain. Baby steps.

Amy: For the last time, the best cop movies, in order: Training Day, Lethal Weapon, and Fargo. End of discussion.
Jake: Wrong. Die Hard is the best cop movie of all time. One cop heroically saving the day while everyone else stands around and watches. It's the story of my life.
Charles: I like Turner & Hooch. Tom Hanks, reluctant friendship with a dog. That hits me where I live.
Rosa: No. Robocop. It's got everything Ike--gratuitous violence.
Jake: Oh, I thought you were listing things.
Rosa: I was. I'm done.
Jake: Okay.
Gina: Let's talk Bad Boys. That's the perfect cop movie. Mr. Smith, lookin' fine. A hot cup of tea leone. Come on.
Terry: Francois Truffaut's Breathless. What? Terry likes foreign films.
Jake: Mm-kay. There is a correct answer to this question, though. So gather around for the greatest cop film of all time. Please refrain from texting during our presentation. All right, so there's Hitchcock. And there's an old hooker. There it is!
Hitchcock: Come on, guys, that happened four years ago.
Jake: Shh, this is the best part. She comes back, takes the wallet and here she goes!
All: Oh!

Jake: Hey, love the sweater. Who you slayin' tonight, lady killer?
Charles: Well, we shall see what we shall see.
Jake: No, you're dressed exactly like The Lady Killer.
Charles: Damn it! This is Jeffrey Dahmer's corduroys all over again.
Terry: All right, let's get started. Scully. Where are you on digitizing the old case files?
Scully: As of yesterday, I'm officially 1% done.
Terry: Why are you smiling? That's nothin’.
Scully: There's thousands of cases, and for each one, I have to fill out 200 little box thingies on 50 different screens.
Rosa: At least you get to sit on your butt all day.
Scully: That's actually the worst part. My doctor said I have an anal canyon.
Jake: Ugh, God, Scully. Why are you always telling us about your disgusting body?
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Jake: I don't see anything.
Scully: That's because it's all wart.
Jake: [Retches]
END FLASHBACK.
Jake: How are you married?
Holt: Peralta, where are we on the Adams Street burglary?
Jake: We are very close, Captain. Aside from a complete absence of evidence, suspects, or leads. So, in conclusion, not at all close.
Holt: And the Vickers Street aggravated assault?
Jake: Stalled out, and the Calloway robbery also remains unsolved, due to a lack of solving it by me.
Gina: Sounds like someone's in a little bit of a slump.
Jake: I'm not in a slump.
Amy: You're not? Scoreboard.
Jake: I don't slump, people. I opposite slump. I p-muls. That's "slump" backwards, and it's what I do. I p-muls all over this bitch.
Terry: Dismissed.
Amy: Slump.
Jake: P-muls!

Jake: Wait...Before you say anything, I want to guess what happened, based on your face. Someone died. No! You won a prize! I'm not getting better at this.
Holt: I'm concerned that the open cases mound of garbage on your desk has become so much higher than the closed cases mound of garbage.
Jake: All right, sir. Let me hit you with a little analogy. Are you familiar with racecars?
Holt: Formula 1 or Stock?
Jake: That's already way more than I know about it. The point is, I'm a super-awesome race car who's hit a couple of unlucky speed bumps.
Holt: You got speed bumps on a race track?
Jake: Is that not part of car racing? It should be. All I'm saying is, it's open road again. I'm about to close a case. Missing grandma Helen Sterrino. Last Sunday, her grandson Judd reported she went out for bagels and never came back. This morning, we picked up an old lady matching her description exactly. I showed her pictures of Judd, and she said, and I quote, [Old lady voice] “That's my grandson”.
Holt: What did I say about doing voices?
Jake: [Normal voice] I’m a storyteller, sir. It's my craft. Anyways, grandson's coming in. They reunite, and I throw another case on the old "Solved it" pile. Hey, my croissant.

Amy: You wanted to see me, Captain?
Holt: Yes, the D.A. wanted me to personally thank you for your work on the Jay Street drug bust.
Amy: That's why we do this, sir.
Holt: For praise?
Amy: Uh...
Holt: There's a community outreach program that's very important to me. I was wondering if you'd like to head it up.
Amy: Absolutely, sir. I won't just head it up, I will head and shoulders it up. I will dive in, swim around it, and just be altogether good with it.
Holt: Be more articulate when you speak to the children.
Amy: Yes, sir, I will make better mouth.

Charles: Hey, Sarge, I need someone to fill out a lineup. Will you be Scary Terry?
Terry: Oh, I love being Scary Terry. He says what regular Terry's thinking.
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Terry: This is takin' too long! I'm gonna miss the farmer's market!
END FLASHBACK.
Terry: But I'm too busy. I've got a special case I'm working on. Uh, Hitchcock, Boyle needs you to fill out a lineup.
Hitchcock: Oh, great. I'll take my shirt off.
Charles: No one asked you to take your shirt off. Stop volunteering to take your shirt off.
Hitchcock: I can't hear you! Shirt's over my ears.

Amy: Hi, Rosa. Ooh, I like your shoes. They're a really pretty-
Rosa: What do you need?
Amy: Color. Okay. You know how, every year, the precinct does that junior police program seminar?
Rosa: That thing where we try to get a bunch of loser kids to become student snitches?
Amy: No, the thing where we try to get at-risk kids-
Rosa: Losers.
Amy: To sign up to become junior police officers.
Rosa: Snitches. What about it?
Amy: Captain specifically asked me to run it this year. I signed you up to do it with me. Here's the info.
Rosa: Now I gotta read something?
Gina: Greetings. Fine. I guess I can help you with those at-risk kids.
Amy: [Scoffs] I don't need your help. It's nothing personal. It's just... You're not a cop, so I'm not really sure you could help.
Gina: Okay. No hard feelings. But I hate you. Not joking. Bye.

Jake: Ah, Mr. and Mrs. Terrino. I'm glad you're here. May I present to you... [Trumpet imitation]
Elderly Woman: Oh, my darlings. Thank God I found you. Oh, look at those beautiful cheeks.
Mr. Terrino: I have no idea who this lady is. I've never seen her before in my life.
Jake: What? No, she recognized you. This is Helen.
Elderly Woman: Who's Helen? Oh! That's my husband. Solomon.
Charles: I'm- I'm not really her husband.
Elderly Woman: You're so much shorter than you used to be. What did the Japanese do to you?
Jake: Different generation.
Charles: Okay, this is Ethel Musterberg from the Prospect Heights Senior Center. There was an I.D. card in her back pocket.
Terry: Why was your hand in her back pocket?
Jake: Well, she told me she didn't have any I.D., and unlike Boyle, my first instinct was not to caress her butt.
Charles: Frisked! I frisked her butt!
Holt: It looks like this case remains unsolved, Peralta.
Jake: Oh, my God. I'm in a slump!

Jake: Oh, cool. You're all here in the break room.
Rosa: You asked us to come in here.
Jake: What? Here's a hypothetical question. Let's say I knew someone that, for the first time in their career, was experiencing, like, a minor slump. What do you think you would suggest to that person if they were going through that?
Charles: Well, I haven't really been in a slump since my divorce. So I'd tell this person, "Maybe get divorced." He'd have to get married first.
Jake: Okay, so the suggestion to beat is get married and then divorced. Rosa?
Rosa: Fly to Montreal, hit a classy hotel bar, bone a stranger, slump over.
Jake: Wow, that sounds amazing.
Rosa: Yeah.
Jake: That's a good one. Sarge, what would you do?
Terry: 10,000 sit-ups.
Jake: Okay, do you have a backup plan in case my hypothetical person can only do 9,500, or 3?
Holt: What's going on in here?
Charles: We're helping Jake's friend get out of his slump.
Holt: Or try working a case until it's solved, Peralta. I always find that closing cases is the best way to end the slump.
Jake: Thank you, Captain!
Terry: He's right. You just need a win. Pick your easiest, no-brainer case, and work it till it's done.
Jake: Fine! Right after I do Rosa's Montreal sex thing. That sounds fun.
Rosa: Yeah.

Amy: Okay, this is the Junior Police Program. AKA "Mission Possible." Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is to get your life back on track.
Gina: [Coughs] Narc!
[Kids laugh]
Amy: Hey, Gina. What are you doing?
Gina: Oh, hi, Amy. Since I have nothing to offer, and since I'm not a cop, I thought I'd just show up and learn.
Amy: Do you wanna help me out here?
Rosa: Nah, I think I'm good.
Amy: I know you think getting in trouble is cool. But let me show you what can happen if you continue down this path. [Deep voice] Hey, yo, I'm an at-risk kid, and I think it's cool to sell drugs.
Steven: Hold up- Why does the kid selling drugs sound like he's black?
Amy: [Normal voice] He's not.
Gina: Well, why not? Are you saying that black people can't sell drugs?
Amy: No, I'm not saying that.
Steven: We have a black president. Why can't black people sell drugs?
Amy: I'm so confused.
Gina: Black people can sell drugs!
Gina and Kids: [Chanting] Black people can sell drugs!

Terry: Don't make me hit you again.
[Door opens]
Terry: Um...I'm building this dollhouse for my girls. It's their birthday tomorrow. I told my wife I'd get it done.
Charles: I had the same exact one when I was a kid!
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Charles’ Sister: Mom, Charles is hogging my doll house!
Kid Charles: Grandma bought it for the both of us!
END FLASHBACK.
Charles: You want some help, big man?
Terry: No! I can do this. It's just driving me a little crazy. Where do I affix the princess tower, Boyle?! Where do I affix it?!
Charles: On the side of the turret-
Terry: Not now, Boyle. Let a brother breathe. Let a brother breathe.

Hitchcock: Why would I swap cases with you? I got multiple calls that a guy in the Sackett Towers is dealing meth out of his apartment. It's a guaranteed arrest.
Jake: And therefore will have a ton of paperwork. Which I know you hate. I have a murder here with no leads and no evidence. It's unsolvable, and thus... shall have no paperwork.
Hitchcock: You had me at "No paperwork."
Jake: That was the very end of the sentence. All right, Boyle. Let's hit it.
Holt: So, where are you going, Peralta?
Jake: I am on my way to ending the slump. I got a dunker, Captain. Nothin' but net.
Charles: Hey, slump, you're about to get nailed by the Jake Hammer.
Holt: So you haven't solved any of your old cases, and yet you've taken on a new one. I mean, shouldn't you at least solve this Helen Sterrino missing grandmother case first?
Jake: Or I could solve a super easy one, get my mojo back, and move on to catching The Zodiac Killer. Am I getting ahead of myself?
Charles: No, you are not, Jake Rabbit.
Jake: I like Jake Hammer better. Let's go. Ah.

Amy: I did not think getting these kids to sign up would be this hard.
Rosa: [Scoffs] These kids don't wanna listen to you. You're like... Smart and articulate.
Amy: So are you! Why am I offended by that?
Rosa: They don't identify with you because you're not from the streets. I am. Follow, watch, learn. All right, listen up. I know you think you're badasses. But deep down, you're scared. How do I know? Because I've been that same scared kid, and if you don't get your crap together, I'm gonna end up busting you and throwing you in jail. Got it?
Steven: Remix, yo!
Rosa: [From phone] [Autotuned] [Looping] Throwing you in jail.
[Kids laugh]
Rosa: What's happening?
Amy: I think they're laughing at you.
Rosa: That's never happened before. I don't like it.
Rosa: [From phone] [Autotuned] Got it?

Jake: NYPD, hands where I can see them.
Elderly Man: Don't shoot! I was just practicing my minuets, but I'll hold it down.
Jake: All right, flute man, who else is in this apartment? Where's the dealer?
Elderly Man: I live here alone with my birds.
Jake: What, you don't think I know this M.O.? These are mules. They're drug mules. They're bird mule drugs. Drug bird mules.
Charles: Apartment's clear.
Jake: We got multiple calls about a dealer here.
Elderly Man: I bet it's the silly kids down the hall. They love prank calling me. The only drugs in this apartment are for my heart, my liver, my kidney, my salivary glands, and my penis and my feet.
Charles: Oh, bird pooped on your shoulder. No, wait... Pooped on your head, then dripped onto your shoulder.

Charles: I'm telling you, it's good luck.
Jake: No, it isn't, okay? That's just something people say when a bird poops on you to make you feel better because it's terrible.
Hitchcock: Fore, comin' in!
Jake: Oh, come on.
Hitchcock: I was at the crime scene. This guy comes up out of nowhere, confesses. Well, he says he's gotta make things right, so helps me track down his accomplices.
Jake: That is so great, man. Looks like everything's comin' up Hitchcock.

Gina: Hey, Jake. You busy?
Jake: Yes, I very clearly am busy.
Gina: The medical examiner's office just called. They mishandled some evidence. So the D.A.'s gonna have to dismiss your last two busts.
Jake: [Sighs] Great. And the slump gets worse.
Gina: I don't think it's a slump. Honestly, you are straight-up cursed.
Jake: Good to know. Can you hand me a paper towel, please, Gina?
Gina: There's no more left.
Jake: Yeah, that sounds right.

Jake: Hey.
Holt: You're dripping on my carpet.
Jake: Oh, don't worry, sir. It's just urinal water. Clean urinal water.
Charles: You could eat off his shirt.
Holt: Why would I ever eat off his shirt?
Jake: Look, sir, I don't know what's going on, but I think I'm cursed.
Holt: Cursed, huh?
Jake: The freakiest things have been happening to me. I mean, I can't solve a case to save my life. Birds are unloading on me left and right. And, two seconds ago...
BEGIN FLASHBACK:
Jake: Hey, Sarge, do we have any old t-shirts in here? I-
[Doll house clatters]
Terry: [Breathing heavily]
END FLASHBACK.
Jake: Cursed.
Holt: Yeah, I've seen this kind of thing before. It happened to a friend of mine back in the One-Eight. Detective Smith. We called him Smitty. He thought he was cursed, and because cops are superstitious, the whole precinct thought he was cursed.
Jake: But then he found a case, and he solved it. And now he's married to Kate Upton.
Holt: No. No one would go out on calls with him. He responded to a riot at a gym without backup, and got beaten up by a girls' volleyball team. It was actually quite violent.
Charles: Man... Girls are so scary.
Holt: I don't want you out in the field again, Peralta. I'm pulling you from casework. You can digitize old files with Scully.
Jake: You're benching me? No, no, no, look- I've got a plan. Give all my open cases to Hitchcock, who's suddenly on a roll, and assign me 20 fresh ones. Eventually, my luck will turn.
Holt: No, I don't think that's what's best for you or the squad. Not until this blows over.
Jake: And how long will that be?
Holt: Could be a week, could be a month.
Charles: Could be a year. Could be a decade. Sorry, we're just saying bigger and bigger numbers.

Amy: I don't know how to connect with these kids. They're mean and shallow and respect nothing. I mean, what kind of person would they even listen to?
Gina: Hitchcock, stop bringing your food in little tupperware containers. It hurts my fingers when I'm trying to open it.
Hitchcock: Sorry!
Amy: Hey, Gina. That's a super cute-
Gina: What do you want?
Amy: Sweater. Okay. Rosa and I think it would be great if you talked to the kids.
Gina: Mm, I thought only cops could help.
Rosa: In this case, not being a cop might actually be better.
Gina: Mm, that's true. In all cases, cops are the worst.

Jake: "Enter the numbers from this report into the corresponding boxes on the screen. Then fill out these fields." And I'm in a coma. Hey, Hitchcock. Help me out, man. I'm so bored. Let me jump back on that murder with you.
Hitchcock: No. I got it.
Jake: Come on, man, let me just-
Hitchcock: No, don't touch it! You're contagious. Everything could fall apart!
Holt: Peralta, leave Hitchcock alone! Come here. I got in touch with Smitty. He says that you should rub this rabbit's foot with your left forefinger and your pinky, like this, for good luck. Okay? Now you try it.
Jake: Okay. Yep. It's definitely helping. I can feel it. The curse is lifting off of me. Ah, hand cramp!
Holt: Rub, rub, rub.

Terry: [Groaning]
Charles: You okay?
Terry: The fairy princess castle has defeated me. I'm a grown man with man hands and a man brain. I should be able to put together a dollhouse in less than four hours. Why does it have to be so hard? Look... This screw has three point sides. And nowhere to screw it in! And there's wheels. What kind of castle has wheels? [Screams] Aah!

Jake: 117A. Yes. 117B. Yes. 118A. Wait a minute. Hey, just heading to the can.
Holt: Take the rabbit's foot.
Jake: Roger that.
Charles: Hey. What's going on?
Jake: Well, I'm not allowed to leave my desk, so we have to meet in here.
Charles: So what you're saying is that this is kind of a...
Jake: No, for the last time, Charles, we don't need a clubhouse.
BEGIN FLASHBACK MONTAGE:
Charles: Clubhouse! [Sings] Clubhouse. [Normal voice] You know what I'm thinking?
Jake: No clubhouse.
END FLASHBACK.
Jake: I need you to make these calls for me. Don't let Holt see you. But if my hunch is right, the slump is over. Come through for me, Boyle.
Charles: You know I will.
Jake: All right.
Charles: I'm just saying, put a couple leather chairs in here.
Jake: Go!

Gina: Children, your problem is not that you're troubled or at-risk or bad dressers. Is that a trucker hat? Still? Come on. Your problem... is that you don't have passion for anything. My life turned around when I found my passion. And today, well I hope to inspire you with it.
[Christina Aguilera’s “Beautiful” plays]
Gina: What are we thinking? Yes, in the denim.
Kari: I think I speak for everyone when I say your weird dancing was just weird.
Gina: Fine. Cops make $52,000 a year. You never have to stop at a red light. And you get to carry a gun. Who wants in? Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Yes.
Amy: Oh, my God. You got eight kids to sign up. How did you know that would work?
Gina: That's what made me sign up when I was a kid.
Rosa: You did this program?
Gina: Mm-hmm. Yeah. It does not work.

Charles: They're here.
Jake: Fantastic. Too dramatic?
Charles: No.
Jake: Hi.
Mr. Terrino: Why are we in the bathroom?
Jake: I thought you might ask that, and I will answer in due time. But first, I know what happened to your grandma. Nothing.
Mr. Terrino: What are you talking about?
Jake: The reason I couldn't find her is because she never existed. I had Detective Boyle make some calls, and it turns out you've done this before. Five missing persons reports in five different states. Recognize this?
Mr. Terrino: What are you accusing us of?
Jake: Probably insurance fraud. Definitely filing a false report and obstruction of justice. Now, you were wondering why we did this in the bathroom. It's because you're full of crap.
Charles: Blammo! Jake Hammer strikes again.
Jake: Jake Hammer strikes again.

Holt: Detectives. I see we got eight recruits for the Junior Police Program. Outstanding.
Amy: Thank you, sir. But, as important as your praise is to me, it should actually go to Gina. She's the one that got through to the kids.
Gina: Yes, I am amazing. And I only ask for one thing in repayment. A 600% raise.
Holt: Or... I can give you a zero percent raise and make you my personal assistant, which is what I'm doing. I think you have hidden talents, which will make you surprisingly good at the job.
Gina: No, I have no talents.
Holt: You start Monday.
Gina: Ugh. Constantly getting Holt's approval is the worst.
Amy: Yes, I can only imagine.


Jake: Well, the curse is over. The slump is done. Jake is back. Permission to take a selfie of the two of us, sir?
Holt: Permission denied.
Jake: Too late. Ah, that was a good one.
Holt: So, the rabbit's foot worked, huh?
Jake: Ah, maybe. All I know is my mind was so numb from doing all that boring data entry that my brain kind of rebooted, and I had an inspiration about one of my old cases. [Deep breath] And I now see that that was your plan all along. And that you're capable of smiling.
Holt: All talented detectives haves their ups and downs, Peralta.
Jake: So you think I'm talented. You said it. No takebacks.
Holt: You know why Boyle doesn't slump?
Jake: Because his whole life is a slump?
Holt: Because he doesn't let adversity get him down. He keeps grinding. If I'd given you those new cases, the second you hit a snag, you would have spiraled again. You need to stay out of your own head.
Jake: Okay. But, sir, I don't get it. If that was your plan, why bother with Smitty and the rabbit's foot?
Holt: Well, there's a very good reason for that. I was, uh, I believe the term is, uh... messing with you.
Jake: Oh... I see what's going on here. We're becoming homies. Office Christmas card candidate, right here! Me and Holt are homies!

Charles: Hey, Sarge. I assembled the castle for you. Here it is.
Terry: Oh, my God. What happened to all the princess flourishes?
Charles: Well, they were destroyed, so I turned it into a princess police station. You know, some jobs take brains, some jobs take muscles, some jobs take dainty little fingers. Did I ever tell you I had to wear a woman's wedding ring?
Terry: Thank you, Boyle. I appreciate it.
Charles: You're a good dad. Don't put so much pressure on yourself. Oh, check this out. Working siren.
[Siren blares]
Charles: [Yelling] I'll fix that! I'll fix- I'll fix that.

Jake: Hey, you guys see the dude I brought in today... The drug dealer? 81 years old. I think it's the oldest collar of my entire career

Amy: I once arrested a 96-year-old for flashing. I was terrified he'd die in my backseat... Or flash me.

Rosa: My oldest collar was 78, but the PCP made her fight like she was 20.

Scully: What about two 50-year-old twins? Does that count as a 100-year-old?

Amy: No good.

Jake: No.

Charles: You talking oldest bags? 68.

Amy: That's not that old.

Charles: Yeah, but I was only 20.

Jake: 20? Were you even a cop then?

Charles: No, man, it was before I got into the academy.

Rosa: Charles isn't talking about his oldest arrest.

All: Ew!

Charles: No... yes, I am. Yeah, oldest arrest... 68, like I said.

Jake: God, you had sex with a 68-year-old when you were in your 20s?

Charles: You know how it is. When you have a chance to bed an older woman, you...

Jake: No, that is not an older woman. That's an old woman! That's someone's grandma!

Charles: She was, actually. That's how I met her. Went to college with her grandson Marvin. Don't... don't knock it till you try it. She had a replacement hip with some serious torque. It was like having sex with a transformer.

Jake: No. That is no one's fantasy.

♪

99th Precinct Morning BRIEFING



Terry: Peralta... Where are we on the Lincoln place murder?

Jake: Well, like I told Captain Holt earlier this week, we are at the one-yard line. It's a football reference.

Terry: Yes, Jake. I played linebacker at Syracuse.

Boyle: Really? In High School, I played center field in the musical damn Yankees.

Jake: Yeah, you don't want to brag about that.

Holt: Peralta, you want to loop everyone in?

Jake: Ehh...

Holt: That was not a request.

Jake: Fine. [Groans] Get ready for some stuff on a screen. Meet Fred Gorman... Prominent citizen, lawyer, corpse. Now meet his wife, Ann Hoert. She did not take his last name, but I believe she did take his life.

Charles: Nice.

Jake: Thank you, Charles. Now, Hoert had means, motives, and opportunity. I just need to find the murder weapon. For some reason, the D.A. won't move forward with the arrest until we find the knife she used.

Holt: Is that reason that they want to win the case?

Jake: Yes.

Holt: Well, find it. The family's close to the mayor, and I'm catching heat from the higher-ups. I'm gonna ask you again. Do you need any resources or personnel?

Jake: No, sir, I've got it.

Holt: Okay. Dismissed! Sergeant Jeffords, my office.

Gina: Uh-oh. He probably wants to talk to you about how your shirts aren't tight enough probably.

Amy: Okay, how can we help? What do you need?

Jake: I need nothing. I'm about to solve this case, meet the mayor, and sell my life rights to Channing Tatum so he can play my less attractive brother in the ensuing film.

Rosa: Come on, Peralta, Holt said to use the whole team. We all want this solved.

Jake: I appreciate the offer, but I work best alone... Except when it comes to s*x. Actually, sometimes including s*x.

Amy: Will you just let us help?

Jake: Okay, fine. I will let one of you help me... Charles.

Charles: Yeah!

Jake: And I am choosing Charles because he's the least likely to steal my thunder.

Charles: I would never steal his thunder. I-I'd be afraid to borrow it.

CAPTAIN HOLTS OFFICE

Holt: Terry, I'd like you to accompany me to a gun range.

Terry: You mean drive you there and wait outside... Far away from the guns.

Holt: I spent eight years in the public affairs office, so my tactical skills are a little rusty. I need some pointers.

Terry: Sir, I haven't fired a weapon since the incident.

Holt: The mannequin incident... I'm familiar.

[Flashback]

TERRY: [Screaming shorting the mannequin, the Gun clicking]

[End Flashback]

Terry: Actually, there was an incident after that.

Holt: Another incident?

[Flashback]

Terry: Screaming shooting the piñata.

Jake: You got to cool it, man. I'm gonna get some candy.

[End Flashback]

Terry: Sir, I may not be the man for the job.

Holt: You used to be the precinct's champion marksman. I only want to take pointers from the best. So I'll keep it low-key. We'll go after work to a private range. No cops, no pressure.

Gina: Blam! Blam, blam! Gun range.

Holt: I told Gina she could join us.

Gina: I wanna get certified. There has been a ton of crime in my neighborhood, and the cops in my precinct are very bad.

Holt: You live in our precinct.

Gina: Yeah, I know.

CHARLES AND JAKE QUESTION THE DOORMAN

Jake: I know we've gone over this before, but I have to ask you again. Is there anywhere you can think of in that hallway where a knife could be hidden?

DOORMAN: Well, since I've already told you, like, three times, no, why don't I just record it? Then I don't have to say it again. [STARTS RECORDING] The hallway, like all other hallways, does not have a secret knife-hiding place.[STOPS RECORDING] All right, you want to hear it again? [PLAY] Idea for a novel... A mild-mannered doorman gets bitten on the pen1s by a radioactive spider and becomes the world's greatest lover.

Jake: No, don't stop it. I want to hear what happens.

Doorman: This is terrific. He saves the first lady, if you must know.

Jake: Sounds compelling.

[Charles knocks on door 607]

Charles: Oh, boy.

Lady: Well, hello. I heard you guys were making the rounds again.

Charles: All right. [Clears throat] This one's all you, tiger.

Boyle: Come on!

[Jake knocks on door 610]

Jake: Police! Hey, ma'am.

Lady: Thank God! Here, hold this. [Baby crying] The lasagna's burning.

Jake: What?

Lady: Get the dog, but don't let it touch the baby! [Phone ringing] [Baby crying]

Jake: Oh. Okay. Peralta.

Rosa: Yo, I looked at the photos of your victim on your desk.

Charles: Is that Rosa? Tell her I said hi.

Rosa: The puncture wounds are similar to a case I had a while back. They aren't from a knife. I think it's something spiral, like a corkscrew.

Jake: Shh, shh, shh, shh.

Rosa: Don't shush me. I'm helping you.

Jake: No, no, I'm holding a baby. That was actually very helpful, thank you.

Rosa: Uh-oh. You better get back here. Now.

[Precinct]

[Jake and Boyle arrive to see the Vulture on Jake's desk polishing his shoes.]

Vulture: Oh! Hello, Peralta.

Jake: [Groans] No, no, no!

Vulture: I don't know why you're so upset, man. I'm the one who had to come to this backwater stink hole. What's up, little man?

Charles: What's up?

Vulture: Feeling sexy? Huh?

Charles: Yeah, I feel sexy.

Vulture: Yeah, you look sexy, man.

Charles: You know I do.

Vulture: Watch out for that door. Yo, how much you bench, seriously?

[Captain Holt's office]

Jake: Captain, please, please, pretty please do not let him take over my case.

Holt: Major crimes is stepping in. Nothing I can do. You're off the case.

Jake: I can't believe you're just rolling over and giving my murder away to the Vulture!

Charles: We call him The Vulture because he swoops in and solves cases that are almost solved and takes the credit for himself.

Holt: Yes, Boyle, I put that together from context. First of all, major crimes has jurisdiction over any and all cases they want to take. But more importantly, you're the one who insisted on working alone. I told you for weeks to use the squad, and you refused.

Jake: I used them. I mean, Rosa's the one who figured out the corkscrew. And Charles caught a dog.

Holt: Oh, congratulations, Detective Boyle. You should've involved him sooner. Turn over your files to Detective Pembroke.

Charles: Sir, call him The Vulture. Giving him a name makes him human.

Holt: Turn over the files.

Jake: Fine. But in protest, I'm walking over there extremely slowly. [Proceeds to walk extremely slowly to the door with Boyle moving out the way] Thank you. God! This is so boring!

Holt: For both of us.

[Jakes desk]

Vulture: You know, before I solve this case, I'd like to thank you for doing all the super-easy work, you know, the real Nancy Drew-level stuff.

Jake: Oh, yeah? Did Nancy Drew solve a lot of murders?

Charles: Yeah, she did... Murder on lce, Recipe for Murder. Nancy was a wonderful Detective. I wanted to be her when I grew up.

Jake: Thanks, Charles. That's helpful.

Vulture: Hey! Should we take odds on how fast I'll solve this case?

Jake: Nope.

Vulture: I mean, what was it with Diaz's last "impossible" extortion case? What was it, six hours?

Rosa: That's because it was 98% solved.

Vulture: The last 2% is the hardest to get. That's why they leave it in the milk.

Jake: What?

Pembroke: Oh! Wow! Looking good, Santiago. You foxy ma.

Amy: Go rot in hell. This is your fault.

Vulture: Thanks, champ. Good effort. I got it from here. And, hey, you feel free to call me anytime you need me to come down here and help powder that big white ass of yours.

Jake: [Groans] Well, that's the worst thing that's ever happened to me.

[At the bar with the squad,]

Jake: [groans] I hate The Vulture so much!

Rosa: Me too. But he's kind of hot.

[The squad all looks at Rosa]

Rosa: What? You can hate people and still think they're hot. Case in point, Manuel Noriega.

Jake: You know what? I'm with you on this. Tonya Harding.

Rosa: Yeah, she's thick.

Jake: Right?

Amy; Always classy, Jake.

Jake: Mm-hmm.

Rosa: Sorry you got vultured. Happens to the best of us.

[Flashback]

[Rosa is ready to arrest a perp]

Rosa: On my count. One, two...

Vulture: Three! I got it from here! Yeah! Get up! Get up! Turn around! [Laughing]

[ Amy's Flashback]

Amy: You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say...

Vulture: Can and will be used against you in a court of law. Thanks, guys, I got it from here.

[Charles Flashback]

Barista: Skim white chocolate macchiato for Charles.

Charles: Yes.

Vulture: I got it from here.

[End of flashbacks]

Charles: I used a gift card for that!

Jake: God, I just... I want to get back at him so bad! I wish I could throw his cell phone in the toilet or slash his tires... I don't know.

Rosa: Or slash his gorgeous throat.

Charles: I cannot figure you out.

Jake: Okay, I'm buying everyone drinks as long as we're here thinking of a revenge plan. Best idea gets 50 bucks. Throw 'em on out.

Charles: What if you called him from a hospital and said his whole family is dead? Like, they died of cancer.

Jake: Charles, that is so dark. I'm putting it down.

[Shooting range]

Holt: So my stance feels good, but I'm still not hitting center.

Terry: All right. Back your left foot up a hair.

Gina: Like this? Mm, mm, mm!

Terry: No! Gina! We've been over this.

Gina: Well, show me! Like, wrap your thick, muscular arms around me and...

Terry: All right, look, hands here, stand up straight, chin forward.

Gina moves the gun to scratch her nose: Hold on, my nose itches.

Terry: Gina!

Holt: When I lock my shooting arm, the other hand feels unstable. Now, what stance am I supposed to be doing... Weaver or isosceles?

Gina: You guys did stances? Like, I'll be like...

Terry: Yeah, everybody does stances, Gina. Listen, uh... Hey, all right, all right! Look, hey, both you, just watch.

Gina: That's eight! He did it!

Holt: That was only seven.

Terry: Why are you counting my shots? Are you trying to have me recertified?

Holt: Yes. If you make eight of ten shots, I can sign off on you carrying a gun again. Gina's here as an official witness, and I thought it'd be easier for you in a no-pressure environment.

Terry: I can't believe you tricked me!

Holt: You're too good a cop to be shackled to a desk. You only have one hit until you get recertified. So deep breath, huh? Take the final shot.

Terry: Don't overthink it. Just relax and breathe. Bring air into your lungs... Like you've done your whole life. [Panting] Oh, my God. Guys! How do you breathe? I forgot how to breathe! Is it two in, one out?

[Back at the Bar]

Charles: What if we wrap his motorcycle in plastic wrap and melt it with a hair dryer? Little trick I learned in gift basket making class.

Jake: All right. Here's what we're up to. Steal his kidney, burn down his house, replace his aloe tissues with regular tissues. Thank you, Charles.

Charles: You're welcome.

Jake: Leave a dead cat in his cedar closet. Note: He would have to own a cedar closet.

Rosa: He seems like he would.

Jake: Sneak into his apartment and burn popcorn in the microwave. Thank you, Charles. Uh, Scully asked for mashed potatoes, so I wrote that down. Well, I hate to say it, but I think, by default, Charles' motorcycle idea is the winner.

Charles: Yeah! Winning by default!

Jake: Let's get into it. Anybody know where The Vulture lives?

Rosa: On third, right near here. How do you know that?

Jake: Chug 'em, boys. We're rolling!

[The detectives finish wrapping the vultures motorcycle]

Charles: [Grunts] Yes! Take that, Vulture!

Jake: Yeah. Nice. All right, give me your hair dryer.

Rosa: What?

Amy: What are you talking about?

Jake: Don't you carry one in your purse?

Amy: Have you ever met a human woman?

Scully: There's a drugstore four blocks away... I'm on it.

Jake: Oh, no. Scully traveling four blocks? That could take weeks.

Scully: Hoo!

[Shooting range]

Holt: Take the shot, sergeant.

Terry: I just need a second.

Holt: You've had 18 minutes of seconds.

Gina: [Phone ringing] Gina's authentic stolen police badges. How can I help?

Jake: Hey, it's Peralta.

Gina: Oh, hey, Jake.

Jake: Hey, do you carry a hair dryer in your purse?

Gina: Of course. I'm not an animal.

Jake: Great. I need you to bring it to The Vulture's apartment.

Gina: There's someone named "The Vulture"? Tell Rosa. She'd be into that.

Charles: Come on!

Holt: Peralta, why are you asking Gina about Detective Pembroke?

Jake: Oh, Captain, hello. Uh, we are preparing him a gift basket of sorts.

Holt: Look, I understand that you're upset. But if you want to keep this from happening again, I suggest that you pull your team together and solve these cases before major crimes can step in. Am I clear?

Jake: Yes, sir. That is definitely clear. Thank you, sir.

Amy; You should be frowning. Why is Jake smi... Why are you smiling?

Jake: Because the Captain just gave us the perfect revenge plan. We team up and solve this case right now!

Amy: That is not what he meant.

Jake: Think about it, Amy. We go back to the scene of the crime, find the murder weapon, and out-vulture The Vulture! No one gets in trouble if we crack the case.

Amy: Okay, screw it. I'm in.

Jake: Yes! That's right! All right. We're angry. We're getting revenge. We're a little bit tipsy. We should not be driving. We're taking the bus.

Charles: I love the bus!

[In the Bus]

Jake: So the waitress heard the couple arguing at dinner. Apparently he was having an affair, and it was not the first time. Two years ago, she caught him with a dog walker who was walking his dog, if you know what I mean.

Amy: I do.

Jake: Right?

Amy: Yes, I got it.

Jake: s*x times.

Amy: Mm-hmm.

Jake: Anyways, we know it's the wife.

Amy: You're real talkative now that you want our help.

Jake: All right, it is possible that I should've brought you guys in sooner. But I just get so excited, wrapped up in wanting to solve stuff, you know?

Amy: I get it. You want to be the best. We all do. You just don't have to be such a butthead about it. What?

Jake: I just can't believe you would call me a butthead.

Amy: Shut up.

Jake: That's so harsh.

[Rosa sits next to Charles]

Rosa: Hitchcock farts nonstop.

[Shooting range]

Holt: Still waiting, sergeant.

Terry: It's just the target looks exactly like a friend of mine. It's just freaking me out.

Holt: You have a friend... Who's just a silhouette?

Terry: Yes. Let's all just count to a million. One, two, three, four, five, six... So then lceman says, "You can be my wingman any day." And then Maverick says...

Holt: I've seen the film, sergeant.

Gina: I haven't. What happens next? Goose comes back, right? He's not really dead.

Terry: [Sighs] Goose is gone.

Gina: No!

Terry: I know!

[Victims apartment 10:09 PM]

Jake: All right, here's how it went down. 9:45, a man screams. 90 seconds later, wife goes down to the doorman, says a guy murdered her husband and then ran off. We know she's lying. We've just got to find the corkscrew to make our case airtight. I say we role-play, see if something sparks.

[Jake and Charles role-play]

Jake: Darling, thank you for a lovely dinner. Perhaps we should have one more drink before bed.

Charles: [High-pitched voice] Don't you "darling" me, you philanderer.

Jake: No, you're the husband. The husband had the affair.

Charles: I'm always the victim. I don't want to be the victim.

Jake: Okay, Charles is the door.

Charles: No. I'll be the victim. Don't make me a door again.

Jake: Great. Okay, so... Wife goes into the drawer. Gets the corkscrew. Stab, stab, stab. What did she do with the corkscrew?

Rosa: She dumps it in the hallway trash chute on the way to the doorman.

Jake: No, we checked the trash, like, ten times. We would've seen a bloody corkscrew. All right, Hitchcock, you're up.

[Boyle & Hitchcock role-play]

Hitchcock: [Screaming] The body. The corkscrew's still in the body.

Jake: No, you're terrible at this. Go sit down. You're up, Diaz.

Rosa: Stab! Then I... Toss the corkscrew out the window, and it lands on a passing car.

Jake: Security cam showed no one driving by at that time and nothing on the street.

Amy: Okay, I want in. But I only want to stab you.

Jake: Fine. Charles, door.

Boyle: Right.

Jake: [Clears throat] Okay, uh, sweetheart.

Amy: Time to die.

Jake: That seems a little harsh.

Amy: What if it was a magnetic corkscrew? If the corkscrew was on a magnet...

Jake: It's stuck halfway down the inside of the trash chute. I figured it out first! [Grunts]

Charles: Wow!

Hitchcock: What's happening?

Jake: You have a ten-pound flashlight in your purse, but not a hair dryer?

Amy: I can't see far enough down.

Jake: Someone's gonna have to go down in there. Someone with narrow shoulders.

Charles: No! I have broad shoulders. I have narrow hips, but broad shoulders. God!

[Jake and Amy hold Charles by the legs dangling him the trash chute]

Jake: See anything?

Charles: A little lower.

Cop1: Freeze! Hands in the air!

Jake: We're cops.

Charles: Broad shoulders! Stuck! Told you... Broad shoulders.

[Shooting range]

Holt: Apparently, our Detective squad has gotten drunk, compromised the crime scene, and an officer has gotten stuck in a trash chute. I need you to lead this squad, Terry. And I mean really lead it. I hope you take the shot.

[Captain Holts office]

Pembroke: What kind of precinct are you running here?

Holt: Would you like to sit down, Detective? You seem upset.

Pembroke: Hell yeah, I'm upset. Your team disrupted a crime scene over which they have zero... Zero jurisdiction. They were publicly drunk. Apparently one of them pressed all the buttons on the elevator. Only, maybe he just bumped up against the panel with that big white ass of his.

Amy: What now? Holt is gonna kill you.

Jake: I don't think he will... Because...

Charles: Voila!

Amy: You actually found the corkscrew in the trash chute?

Jake: Stuck to the side, just like you said.

[Flashback]

Jakes: Boyle, we're pulling you out!

Charles: [ Falls Screaming] This is the proudest moment of my career. Ah!

[END OF flashback]

Amy: Oh, my God, you guys, we out-vultured The Vulture! [Imitates bird cawing]

Jake: What the hell was that?

Amy: What? It's a vulture.

Jake: Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna take this corkscrew over to the D.A. So we get the collar, not major crimes.

Terry: Peralta! Now.

Jake: [Sighs] Okay. Before you get mad...

Terry: Shut it! Holt was right. I've been so worried about my own kids, I forgot about my stupid grown-up kids.

Jake: That's insulting.

Terry: I should've been on you guys more. And starting now, I will be. But if you ever do this again, I swear I will crush your head in one hand.

Jake: You don't mean that.

Terry: Try me.

Jake: Okay. Where you going?

Terry: The boss is taking heat for something that's not even his fault. I can't let that happen.

Jake: Wait. Damn it. Look, it's not your fault either, and it's not The Vulture's fault. It's Amy's- I know, I know, It's mine. It's mine, okay? God, I do not love how this worked out.

[Jake and Holt enter Captain Holts office]

Jake: Detective Pembroke.

Pembroke: Now what?

Jake: I'd like to cordially invite you to calm down, especially considering that this case has already been solved... By you! Looks like you found the murder weapon. It's a good thing you realized it was magnetically stuck to the inside of the trash chute. Congratulations.

Holt: [Chuckles] Cracked the case all by yourself. We done here?

Pembroke: Yeah. Yeah, we're done here. Hey, keep up the bad work, champ.

Jake: Here it comes. [Grunts] Why does he keep touching my butt?

Pembroke: Stay foxy.

Amy: Die lonely.

Jake: Well, case closed. Good work, everyone. Let's, uh, call it a night without any further discussion.

Holt: No! All of you broke into a crime scene under the influence of alcohol, overstepped your jurisdiction, and disobeyed my direct orders. Everyone involved tonight is gonna get written up.

Jake: Okay, fine. Here's everyone who was there. Jake Peralta, J. Peralta, Dr. Jacob Peralta, who has a PhD in slow-jam studies from Funktown State University, also involved was the right honorable J...

Holt: okay, enough.

Jake: My point is it was a Peralta special, sir. No one else was there.

Holt: Well, Detective, I'm happy to see you're learning how to be part of a team. Everybody go home. Sleep it off.

Terry: Sir? Thank you.

Gina: Ultimately, it was our raw sexual chemistry that helped him overcome his crippling fear.

[FLASHBACK]

Gina: You should just stay in the office all day every day and be my bestie. You could join my dance troupe, Floorgasm. We're looking for a man of precisely your...

[Terry takes the shot]

[END OF FLASHBACK]

Terry: It's gonna be a long road, but I'm ready to get myself back in the game.

Holt: I know you will.

Terry: I mean, eventually... Not tonight. I need to go hug my baby girls. Excuse me.

[The next morning]

Charles: Jake, I have to say, the way you handled things with The Vulture yesterday was very mature.

Jake: Well, sometimes in life, you just have to take the high road. [Timer rings] Oop! Time's up!

Charles: Can't wait to see it.

[Jake pulls out a mold of his ass]

Jake: [Grunts] Ah, here we go. [Grunts] That's good suction. Oh! Ooh! [Grunts] Check it out! Perfect, right?

Charles: Yeah!

Jake writes: "Dear Vulture, enjoy my big white ass. Jake." Here you are. Always take the high road, Charles. Always take the high road.

Amy groans: Sorry, sarge. Ugh, Halloween is the worst. Everyone's drunk, wearing a mask, and carrying a fake gun. Plus all the girls think they have to dress sexy.

Jake says, "I know, that is the worst. Please make them stop."

Amy asks, "I passed a slutty tree on the way here. Who wants to have sex with a tree?"

Scully asks, "Was it a maple?"

Jake asks, "Was it a maple?"

Charles greets, "Buon giorno, buon giorno. Pretty cool 'stume, huh?"

Jake questions, "'Stume?"

Charles explains, "Short for costume."

Jake says, "Ah. All right, let me guess. You are dumpy Chuck Norris."

Charles says, "No, I'm..."

Rosa guesses, "Dumpy Ron Weasley."

Charles says, "No."

Terry says, "You guys, stop it. He put thought into his costume, and he is obviously Miranda from sex and the City."

Charles explains, "Guys, I'm Mario Batali! "Molto Mario"? Celebrity chef? Ginger Prince of little Italy?"

Jake asks, "Is he also a homeless troll doll? 'Cause you look like a homeless troll doll."

A Perp says, "Hey, sweet Batali costume, dude."

Charles exclaims, "Thank you! There's a man with impeccable taste."

Jake says, "He bit a guy's butt off at a W.N.B.A. game. Eric Stoltz from Mask."

Charles says, "I'll take it.

Jake: Yeah.

Briefing room,

SARGE stands in the front: I hope you're all well rested. It's gonna be a busy night.

JAKE: The holding cell's completely full. I keep having to separate Hillary Clinton and Kim Jong-Un.

Flashback

Hillary Clinton and Kim Jong-Un keep making out.

Jake: Stop it! Stop making out! Hey... no! What would Bill say?

END OF FLASHBACK

Holt: We need two undercovers at the DeKalb street warehouse party. Boyle, you're already in costume as, uh, Joy Behar?

CHARLES: I'm Mario Batali.

Holts: Okay. And, uh, Santiago, you go with him.

Amy: Yes, sir. Damn it.

Charles: Santiago, I know that you hate Halloween, but stick with me, and I promise you, you will love it.

Amy: Can you magically make everyone kind, sober, and fully dressed?

Jake: "Kind, sober, and fully dressed." Good news, everyone, we found the name of Santiago's s*x tape.

They laugh

{INTRO SONG}

Jake walks in: Well, ring it up, nerds. I just arrested my first Halloween idiot of the season. He was trying to rob a bank but had a little trouble with the getaway.

FLASHBACK

Banana stuck in the door

Jake: Trying to "split," huh? Don't worry, I'm sure you'll get out on "a peel." I'm so glad you're stuck. I've got a million of these. No, no, don't touch the money!

CRIMINAL: Ugh!

END OF FLASHBACK

Jake: I swear, these perps are so stupid. I'd make a better criminal than any of them.

Charles: Yeah, you would. You'd be an evil mastermind, and everyone would call you the handsome bandit.

Jake: Thank you, Charles. And the best part is, none of you could catch me.

[All protesting]

Holt: I'm fairly certain you would be caught. No, scratch that. I'm 100% sure you'd be caught.

Jake: Ho, ho, ho! All right, challenge accepted.

Holt: I didn't issue a challenge.

Jake: Fine. I'll issue it for you. What's the most valuable thing in your office?

Holt: My medal of valor.

Jake: God, you are such a hero. All right, how about this? I will bet you that by midnight tonight, I can steal the medal of valor from your office.

Holt: Why would I possibly agree to that?

Jake: Because if I lose, I'll work the next five weekends, no overtime. And I won't tell anyone here about the time I saw you wearing short shorts outside of work. But if I win...

Holt: You won't.

Jake: You have to do all of my paperwork tonight, the busiest and spookiest night of the year. And you have to publicly state that I'm an amazing Detective-slash-genius.

Holt: And this won't interfere with you doing your job?

Jake: You mean my job as an amazing Detective-slash-genius? No, it will not. I'll do all of my work, guaranteed.

Holt: I'm considering it. I'm interested. I agree to participate.

They shake hands

Jake: All right. There's the robot I fell in love with.


Rosa walks in with a vic wearing a nun costume: Hey. Sister Steve here got mugged. Some guy dressed as the royal baby punched him and took his wallet.

Sister Steve: She keeps laughing at me.

Rosa:Can't tell you how many nuns I wanted to beat up in catholic school. Ten.

Terry: I didn't know you went to catholic schooL

Rosa: Good. You shouldn't know it.

Terry: I get it. You're so mysterious and tough. But you know what I think? You're actually a big softy.

Sis Steve: No, I think she's really mean.

Terry: You probably read a Maya Angelou poem at your graduation and cried.

Rosa: Didn't graduate. Had to leave.

Terry: Why? What'd you do?

Rosa: Here's a hint. I'm not gonna tell you.

Terry: Oh, I'm gonna find out anyway.

Rosa : tsk

Terry: I'm a Detective. I will detect!


Jake: Hey. [Sighs] Got an arrest file here for the Captain. Drunk and disorderly. So, anyways... Gina! We never talk anymore. How's the dance troupe? Did you get a haircut? What's the Captain's schedule like today?

Gina: I'm not gonna help you rob him, Jake. I'm his assistant, and I take that job incredibly seriously.

Jake: You're literally making paper airplanes out of police reports right now.

Gina: Well, how am I supposed to get it into that garbage can?

Jake: Please, Gina?

Gina: Fine, Captain's got a meeting downstairs in ten minutes.

Jake: You're the best.

Jake kisses Gina's forehead: Mwah! What does your skin taste like?

Gina: Dina Lohan. I'm wearing her face lotion.

Jake: That's it. Thank you.

Charles & Amy are undercover outside on the street

Charles: Okay, party's around the corner. Tipster said there'll be a huge amount of drug activity.

Amy: Why is this costume so stiff? And what is that smell?

Charles: The department never washes them, so it's probably vomit. Hey! I got you a chocolate. Yet another great thing about Halloween... chocolate!

Amy: Thanks. Oh, look. Raggedy Ann is drinking vodka right from the bottle. People think if they put on a costume, they can just get away with anything they want. Halloween is Christmas for jerks. Come on, ma'am. No open containers.

Raggedy Ann: Oh, and why should I listen to you, bone person?

Amy: It's called skeleton. It's a very common word. Just put the vodka away.

Raggedy Ann: You guys are cops? These guys are cops! [Partiers booing]


Captain Holts office

Holt: Are you in my ceiling, Peralta?

Jake: No.

Holt: So what's the plan? You wait for me to leave my office, lower yourself down, take my medal, and win the bet?

Jake: Who are you talking to? There's no one up here.

Holt: Peralta, just so you know, right now, I am taking my medal off the wall and placing it in a locked safe whose combination is known only to me. The safe, in turn, is locked in the cabinet. The only key to that cabinet is on my person. I'm off to my meeting. Good luck with your plan.

Jake: You think that scares me? I laugh in the face of adversity! Are you still there? Captain, are you still there? I can't hear... Agh! Ow.


Jake walks in with a perp: Here you go. Don't touch the butter. What happened? I thought you guys were supposed to be at the warehouse party.

Amy: We got egged. Some of the shell got in my contacts and my hair and my mouth and my bra.

Jake: I can't tell if that's hot or not. Not hot. Eggshell in my bra is not hot.

Jake: Well, it's kinda hot. Boobs go in a bra. Up top. {Charles high fives Jake}Whoo! My man. Well, it sounds like costume duty is going great.

Charles: So great. We're having the best time. Right, Amy?

Amy: I wish I was dead. Hmm. How's the unwinnable bet going?

Jake: Well, on the one hand, I fell through the ceiling and onto a pencil, but on the other hand, I also badly bruised my brain.

Rosa: If you wanted to make a bet with Holt, you shoulda made a bet you could win. Like who wears more denim jackets.

Jake: That was one time. You guys never forget anything. You know, frankly, I'm a little surprised you don't think I can win this thing. You're always telling me how I'm the best.

FLASHBACK

CHARLES HANDS HIM COFFE: You're the best, Jake.

JAKE ENTERS THE COPY ROOM

JAKE: Paperwork delivery.

CHARLES: You're the best, Jake.

IN THE BATHROOM

CHARLES: Jake, you're the best.

JAKE:Thank you, Charles.

END OF FLASHBACK

JAKE: Yeah, maybe it's just Charles.

Terry: Look, Jake, I love you like you're one of my daughters.

Jake: Really?

Terry: But it's not about you or how smart you are. It's about Captain Holt. The man's a genius. He's had your number at every turn.

Jake: Well, not this day... Turn... time. Sorry, I'm pretty sure I had a concussion back there. Here I come.

JAKE FALLS FOWARD TO TERRY

TERRY PICKS HIM UP AND PLACES HIM ON HIS CHAIR All right.

JAKE: Ohh, strong. Ahh.

THERES A LINE UP OF ROYAL BABIES , TERRY, SISTER STEVE AND ROSA ARE LOOKING AT THEM

Rosa: Okay, here's the first set of royal babies I rounded up. Popular costume. Any of these guys look familiar?

SISTER STEVE: Maybe the third guy. The baby who mugged me was pretty short.

ROSA: [Snickers]

SISTER STEVE: You're not supposed to laugh at me.

rosa: Number three, step forward and say, "give me your money, you stupid bag of crap."

Number #3: Gimme your money, you stupid bag of crap.

SISTER STEVE: No, wrong giant baby.

TERRY: I still want to know why you got kicked out of catholic school. Were you doing drugs?

ROSA: Worse.

TERRY: Selling drugs?

ROSA: Worse.

TERRY: How bad could it have been? Did you burn down a church?

ROSA: Number three, step forward and say the word "worse."

Number #3: Worse.

PRECENT

HOLT: Excuse me, Gina. I can't find Peralta anywhere, and you're the only one who can decipher his handwriting. He arrested that bunny, but I don't know what for. He's either a crispy mother werewolf or cowboy mustard, oslo, Norway.

GINA: Hmm. The bunny groped multiple women on the subway. Being able to read Jake's writing is a gift. A useless, useless gift.

Holt: Excuse me one second. Nice costume, Peralta.

JAKE: No Peralta here. Just a normal janitor pushing trash around.

HOLT: Come out of there.

JAKE: [Sighs] Captain, hey.

HOLT: You really thought this was gonna work?

JAKE: Uh, it did work. This whole janitor gambit was designed to fail. It's just like in chess. Sometimes in order to win, you have to sacrifice your king.

HOLT: That's exactly how you lose in chess. Have you ever played the game?

JAKE: Yeah, I used to play with my uncle Bob all the time, and he said I was great.

FLASHBACK:

UNCLE BOB: This is a game of concentration, Jake. So focus your mind, and start shooting.

JAKE SHOOTS THE CHEST PECIES

BOB: Now you're a master of chess, huh?

END FLASHBACK

JAKE: He taught me how to shoot backgammon too.

HOLT: I expected better of you. You could have at least created a diversion to distract me from your terrible costume.

JAKE: Uh, I'm not a dumb butt. I had a diversion planned. There was just a slight timing issue. Oh, my God! Get down, everyone! There's a big fire! Captain, you better head over there for, like, 15 minutes and see what's going on with that. Beware of the back draft. I'll be in your office. You have beautiful eyes. Have it your way. But you're gonna need this. And... that. It's filthy in there.

DeKalb ST

CHARLES: Come on, Amy! Loosen up! You look like such a cop! Come on, have some fun, you know? It'll help you blend in! Whoo!

AMY: Stop trying to get me to love Halloween. It'll never work.

CHARLES: I'm backing it up.

AMY: Oh, God, please don't. Hey, heads up. I'll cut 'em off at the exit. Okay.

BOTH:Move! Move, move!

THEY BORH RUN

AMY: He ditched the drugs. I'm on it. Ugh. [Groans] Oof, everything is sticking to me. Ooh. Ay, h. Yes.

Male partier: Hey, watch out, man.

AMY CRINGES : Ugh! What is that? How is it hot and cold?

PRECENT

HOLT: So the soonest you can fix the ceiling is Monday? I'm gonna have to call you back.

JAKE: Wait, stop scratching me. We're supposed to be a team.

HOLT:Ahem.

JAKE; Captain, hi. I was just photocopying some stuff.

HOLT: Are you trying to jam pigeons into my air-conditioning vent to flush me out of my office?

JAKE: Way to ruin the surprise.

HOLT: How did you get those birds?

JAEK: By using my big, fat brain.

FLASHBACK:

JAKE CHASING THE BIRDS WITH A BAG: Get in the bag, you damn bird. Eat the bread. Eat the bread! I gotcha! I gotcha!

END OF FLASHBACK

JAKE: All part of my elaborate plan to defeat you.

HOLT: So far, you and your big, fat brain are losing... badly.

JAKE: Maybe, if we're talking about who's winning our bet. But if we're talking about who's holding more birds, I'm winning, four-nothing.

HOLT: You're only holding two.

JAKE: Yeah. [Clears throat]


CHARLES & AMY WALKING INTO THE PRECENT

CHARLES: Ooh, when you were logging in the drugs, you missed some awesome stuff. Guy walked by in full astronaut costume, gave me a high five.

AMY: [Deep voice] He high-fived me too.

CHARLES: Wait... Hitchcock?

HITCHOCK: Darn it. I wasn't supposed to talk, but I got so excited about that astronaut.

CHARLES: What is happening?

HITCHCOCK: Amy paid me 50 bucks to trade places with her for the rest of the night.

CHARLES:Really?

HITCHCOCK: Yeah. I'm gonna use that money to buy two suits.


JAKE: Well, I was gonna ask you to tell the Captain that I brought in royal babies for Diaz, but I'm sure he already knows, since he's always one step ahead of me.

Gina: Aww. Why so down, little clown?

Jake: I'm just sick of losing to Holt. I want that medal.

GINA: It's not real gold. I tried selling it online. Zero bids. But here's some advice I gave to the girls in my dance troupe at the "dance till you drop" tournament. That advice was, dance. Dance! Dance.

JAKE: Yeah, I'm not really sure that applies here, Gina.

GINA: It does apply. It means don't give up. We would've won if Natasha's water hadn't broken.

JAKE: Oh, Natasha had her baby?

GINA: You know Natasha?

JAKE: Yeah.

GINA: Yeah.

Both: Her dog has lupus. Yeah.

GINA: That's a trip.

JAKE:Small world.

GINA: Yes.

JAKE; All right, I'm gonna go cry.

GINA:I kind of feel bad for him.

HOLT: Don't. He brought this on himself. You can hang up now.

CHARLES WALKS UP TO AMY

CHARLES: You paid money to get out of working with me?

AMY: Charles, I had to. Tonight has been awful. Halloween is the worst, and I don't understand why you like it.

CHARLES: No, all the things that you think are bad about Halloween are what make it great. The big kids egg you. Then you and your friends run away together. Friendships are forged in the crucible of Halloween adversity. That's all I wanted for us. You can keep the wig. I don't need it anymore.

AMY: I don't really need it either.


Jake: Hey, Captain Holt, can you come out here for one sec?

HOLT: [Sighs] You need something, Peralta?

JAKE: Yes, I do. Hit it, royal babies.

THE FLASHMOB BEGINS WITH ROYAL BABIES TAKING AND THROWING KEYS AROUND

JAKE IS IN HOLTS OFFICE COPYING HOLTS KEYS AND HOLT WALKS IN

JAKE: What... no!

HOLT: Give me my keys.

JAKE: Will you stop catching me? Do you have any idea how much I spent on key chains?

HOLT: $23.

JAKE: Wow, that is unbelievably close. 22.76.

HOLT: Keys.

JAKE: Okay, look. Tonight has been a little humiliating. Things are not going well, so I'm gonna just throw this out there. What do you say we call off the bet and pretend this whole thing never happened?

HOLT: Oh, I'm not letting you off the hook.

JAKE: What? No. Pfft. I meant to give you an out, so you could save face.

HOLT: This is getting sad.

JAKE: Yeah, for you. {JAKE GIVES THROWS HOLT THE KEYS}


TERRY APPROACHES ROSA'S DESK

Terry: [Clears throat] So. I called your school. And I managed to get a hold of one sister Bernadette.

ROSA: I remember that old bag. She was my favorite.

TERRY: Well, guess what she said. Apparently, you were a model student and transferred of your own volition.

ROSA: Fine. The reason I left catholic school was because I got into the American ballet academy. I was a classical dancer. And I was good.

TERRY: I knew it! I knew you were a big softy.

ROSA: You tell anyone, I break your face. {ROSA CLOSES HER DRAWER WITH HER FOOT}

TEERY: No, you won't. You're too sensitive. [Chuckling]

AMY: Captain, sorry to interrupt. Some officers just arrested Peralta.

HOLT: What?

AMY:They caught him scaling the side of the building with a blowtorch.

HOLT: [Sighs]

HOLT WALKS IN THE INTERROGATION ROOM

JAKE: Captain. Welcome to the endgame. Would you care to shake the hand of the man who defeated you? Forgot I was wearing handcuffs. Ohh, that hurt. Whoo!

HOLT: Climbing the side of the building with a blowtorch. What were you thinking?

JAKE: I was thinking I had better core strength. I got winded, like, ten feet up.

HOLT: I knew you wouldn't win the bet, but your performance tonight has made me question not only how good a Detective you are, but, quite frankly, how smart you are.

JAKE: Well, that's not surprising. You constantly underestimate me.

HOLT: No, you've been correctly estimated. You have five minutes until your deadline, and here you are, handcuffed to a table, in a locked room.

JAKE: Which is precisely where I planned on being. Captain, let me tell you a little story. You remember when I fell through your ceiling?

HOLT: Yes, that was six hours ago.

JAKE: It was, I admit, a disastrous failure. But it gave me the idea for Herman, the friendly janitor you met. With Herman, I commenced the perfect crime.

HOLT: I caught you as Herman.

JAKE: But you didn't catch Rosa.

FLASHBACK

HOLT: Come out of there.

V.O Jake: It turns out that Rosa is great at picking locks. { ROSA IS PICKING THE LOCK} END OF FLASHBACK


HOLT: Does not surprise me.

JAKE: No, me neither. Of course, I had to find a way to get her out of your office without you seeing her.

FLASHBACK

JAKE AS HERMAN SETS THE TRASHACAN ON FIRE

Jake: So I created a diversion. Not mistimed... Perfectly timed so she could escape unseen. (ROSA ESCAPES UNSEEN)

HOLT: What about the pigeons?

JAKE: Oh, the gray pigeons?

FLASHBACK

Jake: They were a red herring. Thank you. Their only purpose was to draw you into the copy room while two members of my team broke into your locked office. So now I had a way into your office and an open cabinet. All that was left was for the royal babies to steal your keys.(AMY AND TERRY BREAK INTO HIS OFFICE)

END OF FLASHBACK

HOLT: Yes, but you didn't need the keys. The cabinet was already unlocked. You needed a way into the safe.

JAKE: And I got it.

FLASHBACK

Jake: You were so concerned with getting your keys back, you didn't even notice the sergeant steal your phone. That's right, even the sergeant is on my side. I then had Charles dust your screen cover for prints. The greasiest smudges revealed the four numbers you use the most... (TERRY TAKES HIS PHONE)

END OF FLASHBACK

JAKE: The four numbers in your passcode. Based on your advanced age, I assumed that you use the same passcode for everything... Your phone, your email, and, of course, your safe.

HOLT: That would be a fair assumption.

JAKE: It was at that point that I bumped into a girl dressed as a sexy robot, and we got our flirt on... hard.

FLASHBACK

JAKE: 'Sup?

GIRL: 'Sup?

JAKE; Jake Peralta.

END OF FLASHBACK

HOLT: And how was flirting part of the plan?

JAKE: Oh, it wasn't. It just ruled. And that brings us to five minutes ago, when Amy came to your office and told you that I had been arrested. I knew she's the only one you would believe because, frankly, she's usually too lame to take part in these kinds of things.

Jake: And as you walked over here, Charles awkwardly stuffed himself through your window and opened your safe. We had the four numbers of your code, which meant there were 24 possible combinations for Charles to try. That could take up to four minutes, which is why I really dragged out this explanation.(CHARLES IS SHOWN TRYING OUT DIFFERENT CODES)

JAKE: I mean, really stretched it. I don't know if you noticed, but there were times where I was like, what am I even talking about? This isn't... (timer goes off) Oh. But now, four minutes is up. Which means Boyle is either on the other side of that door holding your medal, or I've lost.

HOLT OPENS THE DOOR

CHARLES: Well, Captain, it seems that Jake isn't the only person you underestima...

JAKE:20 seconds to spare. Game over, Captain. Check me.

HOLT: I think you mean "checkmate." You really need to learn how to play chess. How did you get everyone to help you?

JAKE: I appealed to their sense of teamwork and camraderie with a rousing speech that would put Shakespeare to shame.

FLASHBACK

JAKE: [Scottish accent] For too long, we've been put down, ridiculed, made to wear ties! But no more! For today, we defeat him!

END

HOLT: And that worked?

JAKENo. No, no. Not at all.

Jake: My speech did not inspire them. Come on. So I bribed them. I told them that if we pulled this off, I would do all of their paperwork. And since you're doing all my paperwork...

HOLT: I'm impressed, Peralta. Well done.

JAKE: Thank you, sir.

CHARLES: In fact, the thing that you failed to see, Captain, teamwork, is exactly...

JAKE: Captain? S

CHARLES: What provided our success.

JAKE:Sir? He's not coming back.


Terry: Boyle, I need you in the briefing room.

CHARLES WALKS IN SEEING THEM ALL DRESSD UP

CHARLES: What is all this?

AMY: You know how I think Halloween is for jerks? Well, this Halloween, I was the jerk. I'm sorry about tonight.

JAKE: "I'm sorry about tonight." We found the title for Santiago's follow-up s*x tape.

(ROSA AND JAKE HIGH FIVE)

CHARLES: I'm sorry I couldn't convince you to love Halloween.

AMY; It's not your fault. I was terrible.

JAKE: "It's not your fault I was terrible" is also one of your s*x tapes. (AMY SMACKS JAKE) Ow.

AMY: Halloween is unbearable. But it was slightly less unbearable with you. Don't.

JAKE: Okay.

AMY: Anyway. We're all going to the bar, so get changed, 'cause you can't be the only one there not wearing a 'stume.

CHARLES: 'Stume! Oh, my God. It caught on.

All: No.

JAKE: Ah, Captain Holt. It is so nice to see you. Never thought I'd say that.

HOLT: Hmm. A poor winner. I never would've guessed.

JAKE: Yeah, you would've. Way to go all out on your costume, by the way. I believe you have an announcement to make, so the floor is yours.

HOLT: [Sighs] Attention, everyone. Jake Peralta is an amazing Detective-slash-genius. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have some paperwork to do.

everyone clasp

Jake: All right.

Rosa: Officer in the 92nd got the royal baby mugger. He had 19 wallets in his diaper.

Officer: We got a runner!

rosa drops the giant caveman

caveman: Waahhh!

TERRY: Damn!

ROSA: Oh, I didn't tell you. I got kicked out of ballet school for beating the crap out of ballerinas.

HITCHCOCK: It's a good thing we gave 'em a heads up.

SCULLY: Team effort, Go 99.


Jake: [Knocks] Hey, Cap'n, got a second?
Holt: It's "Captain."
Jake: What did I say?
Holt: "Cap'n," like Cap'n Crunch.
Jake: All right, but to be fair, Cap'n Crunch was a war hero and the primary male role model in my house, growing up, so... Anyways, "Cap-tain", you know that jewelry store robbery down by Grand Army Plaza?
Holt: Mm-hmm.
Jake: I know who did it... Dustin Whitman. I put him in Rikers two years ago. He just got out, and the crime scene matches his M.O. perfectly.


[At the crime scene as siren wails, Jake enters the robbed store]
Jake: Okay, what do we got?
Officer: Well, security cam shows a male suspect, 5'9"...
Jake: Wearing a black ski mask. He bypassed the McConnell alarm by using the magnetic kill switch. And he only stole diamonds, nothing over two carats.
Officer: Yeah, exactly. How'd you know?
Jake: I'm a Detective. It's what I do.
Jake: I'm just kidding. I need a lot more information. But that would've been a great exit line, right?


Jake: The crime techs aren't done yet, but I'm 100% sure it's Whitman.
Holt: Well, let's see what kind of physical evidence they turn up, and then we can talk arrest.
Jake: Actually, hilarious story.
[Dustin was seen sits in holding]
Jake: So that is Dustin Whitman.
Holt: You already arrested him? With insufficient evidence?
Holt: By law, we have 48 hours to find that evidence, or we have to let him go. You just started the clock.
TIME TO DEADLINE 47 HRS 56 MINS


Rosa: What's up with this emergency meeting?
Terry: Whoa, Detective Santiago.
Amy: Big date tonight. How do I look?
Jake: Well, I think you look...
[Jake's phone plays a Donkey braying]
Jake: Sorry, that was supposed to be a catcall. I don't know how this works.
Rosa: Hey, is this why you were getting makeup tips from the prostitute in the holding cell?
Amy: I just wanted to know how she got such smoky eyes. Turns out it was an STD rash.
Holt: Detective Peralta has made a collar in the jewelry store heist.
Charles: Way to go, Jakey.
Jake: Ah, that's okay.
Holt: No. He didn't get sufficient evidence to make it stick, so we have the next 48 hours to fix his mistake.
[All groaning]
Amy: Damn it, Jake. What evidence did you have when you arrested this guy?
Jake: Some pretty ironclad stuff.


[Dustin was at newspaper stand being approached by Jake]
Jake: Dustin, it's been a while. Mind if I ask you a few questions?
Dustin: Well, well, well, if it isn't Joke Peralta. (laughs)
Jake: That's it, you're under arrest.


Jake: Case closed?
Holt: If we don't find something conclusive, it jeopardizes the case and opens the department up to a lawsuit. So cancel your plans. We're here until this is over.
Amy: Damn it, Peralta.
[Some one throws Jake a paper ball]
Jake: Ow!
Holt: I know everyone's mad at Peralta for ruining their weekend.
Jake: But?
Holt: That was it. I was just demonstrating for Detective Peralta what a fact is.

♪ INTRO SONG ♪

TIME TO DEADLINE 47 HRS 15 MINS
Holt: Terry, you just pulled two doubles. You must be tired. I'll stay for this Whitman debacle. You go home.
Terry: I'm not tired. Why would you think I was tired?

[Terry does pull ups]
[Grunting] [Snoring] [Snoring]


Terry: I ended up doing 25 minutes of sleep chin-ups on muscle memory alone. Tired Terry still gets after it, that's all I'm saying.
Rosa: Hey, Gina, can you order food for us at the Flatbush Diner? They make the best pies in New York City.
Gina: Oopsie, you said something super dumb. The best pie in the city's at Crust.
Rosa: Wrong. Ignorant and wrong.
Gina: Uh, you think you can just bully people, but you can't. It's not okay. I'm the bully around here, ask anyone.
Rosa: Boyle, you're always blogging on that foodie website. Which pie's better?
Gina: Yeah, whose do you like better, mine or Rosa's?
Charles: Oh, uh, you know, I-I haven't been to either place yet.
Gina: Why is your eye twitching?
Charles: (scoffs) Wouldn't you like to know?
Gina: Could I see you for a second in the evidence lockup?

Evidence lockup
Gina: Charles, I know what's going on. You've tried both pies. You know mine is better. But you're scared to tell Rosa, 'cause you're into her.
Charles: What? (laughs nervously) That is not true, okay? I-I-I don't even like food.
Gina: What?
Charles: Who's Rosa? Y-you're the scared one.
[Door shuts]
Holt: Planning your strategy?
Jake: No, I'm just making funny faces at him. This mirrored glass is awesome. It straight-up works.
Holt: An effective use of your limited time.
Jake: It is, actually. That's how I got him last time. Let him stew for a little bit, got in his head, and he confessed.
Holt: You better be right.
Jake: I am. Hey, make some funny faces while I'm in there. I wanna see if I can tell.
Dustin: I didn't do anything, Joke.
Jake: (mouthing) That's funny. You said the exact same thing last time. And how'd that work out for you? Let's take a look. Okay. Here's you at your trial. You in prison. Me meeting Regis Philbin. That was fun. You still in prison. Me at Splash Mountain, just pepper these in here. You in prison, you in prison, you in prison, you get it.
Dustin: You got the wrong guy.
Jake: All right. Not ready to confess? Fine by me. I got all the time in the world.
Dustin: No, you actually have 48 hours. I know the law.
Jake: Nuh-uh.
Jake: (walks into the bullpen) So looks like we're gonna be here for a while. Should someone do a coffee run? You know what? Coffee's on me. Oh, but no froofy frappuccinos or anything, I've only got, like, 10 bucks. Okay.
TIME TO DEADLINE 34 HRS 50 MINS
Holt: Rise and shine, detectives, rise and shine. Peralta, I want you to bring everyone up to speed.
Jake: You slept in your office, and you look exactly the same. How?
Holt: What are you talking about? My hair is a mess.
Jake: Oh, yeah.
Holt: Briefing room, five minutes.
Charles: How long were we asleep?
Terry: Just long enough for me to squeeze in quick workout. So, like, three hours.
Rosa: Morning.
[Rosa walks in SITH A COFFEE LOOKING GOOD]
Jake: Ugh. I can't believe you live nearby and you won't let anyone crash at your place.
Rosa: You people already know too much about me.
Jake: I know exactly three facts about you, and one of them is that you won't let any of us crash at your place.
Rosa: Is that a nightgown?
Terry: That's mine. It's a t-shirt from my fat phase.
Jake: (reads the shirt) "If at first you don't secede, try try again."
Terry: When you're that big, you buy anything that fits. A lot of fat guy clothes have racist overtones.


Jake: Okay, a couple of quick announcements. First, I met our night janitor Ronald. If any of you are missing hand sanitizer, he drank it. Second, our warrants finally went through. We gotta place Whitman at the scene and prove that he either possessed or sold those diamonds.
Holt: I know you're all tired, but don't forget why we're here.
Jake: Because we're dedicated detectives.
Holt: Because Peralta jumped the gun.
Jake: Yep.
Holt: Get to work.
Jake: So we both had good answers.
Amy: This isn't a joke. You're ruining our weekend.
Jake: Okay, I'm sorry you had to cancel dinner with your dad.
Amy: Date. I had a date.
Rosa: Hey, if Jake says the guy did it, that usually means the guy did it.
Jake: Thank you. Everyone listen to Rosa.
Rosa: No, I'm still furious at you.
Jake: Okay, no one listen to Rosa. She's clearly an accomplice to this crime. I'm gonna go take another crack at Whitman.
Amy: You've been in there, like, five times. What are you gonna do? Annoy him into talking?
Jake: (sarcastic) Ha, ha.


Jake: Two, three, four. (strumming guitar out of tune, shrieking)
[Jake then walks in the briefing room handing Terry the guitar]
Jake: Didn't work. Thank you. Did not work.
TIME TO DEADLINE 28 HRS 7 MINS
Jake: Hey, Captain. Will you please let everyone else go? I feel bad that I ruined their weekend, and I can tell they're pissed at me. I mean, Charles hasn't tried to high-five me all morning.
Holt: Yes, I've taken the brunt of that.


Charles: Kitchen buds.


Holt: Are you sure Whitman did it?
Jake: Yes, I'm positive.
Holt: Then the whole team stays. We have a better shot with everyone on it.
Jake: Fine, will you at least tell Hitchcock to go home? His mouth smells like rotten trout milk.
Holt: Is there such a thing?
Jake: I'm just telling you what it smells like.
Holt: Get out.


Jake: Do you have the bank records?
Amy: Mm-hmm. Good thing I didn't reschedule my date for tonight. We're never leaving here.
Jake: Well, maybe that's a good thing, you know? Saved you from another lame internet date with some lame guy named Dirk or Mar... garine.
Amy: He's not lame, okay? He works with a friend of mine. He has a human name. And I'm not telling you what it is, because you'll look him up and make fun of him.
Jake: I can't believe you think so little of me that you would just automatically assume... Is it Luke Mueller?
Amy: How did you do that?
Jake: Well, you only have one friend... Kylie. And she has seven male coworkers. Goatee, goatee, jaunty fedora, profile pic is a sunset, Tasmanian devil tattoo, goatee. Leaving Luke as the only viable option.
Amy: Well, he's nice, and he uses proper punctuation in texts.
Jake: Dreamboat. And I wanted to go out with him.
Jake: All right. You know what? Reschedule for tonight. I promise I will get us out of here in time.
Amy: Fine. I'm holding you to that.
Rosa: Where's he taking you?
Amy: Terrific, let's get everyone involved. Dinner and a movie.
Rosa: [farting noise] (Rosa walks away)
Amy: Dinner and a movie is the perfect first date.
Charles: I think the perfect first date doesn't feel like a first date at all, because you've known each other for a few years, maybe even work together. And one night you're laughing, and then all of a sudden, it's just like blammo! Kissing.
Rosa: For me: Cheap dinner, watch basketball, bone down.
Charles: So pretty much the same as what I said.
TIME TO DEADLINE 22 HRS 21 MINS
Rosa: None of the partials match Whitman. If he did it, he didn't leave any prints.
Charles: Maybe he doesn't have any. Interesting fact about me... I once burnt my fingerprints off on a wok.
Gina: Hi, hello.
Charles: What are you doing? Holt said you didn't have to come in here. You don't come in on days you're supposed to work.
Gina: Because I'm so nice, I brought two pies. One is from Crust. And one's also from Flatbush Diner. Hey, you know what might be fun? Charles could try them and tell us which one is better. How fun is that?
Charles: So fun.
Gina: Yay! Yum, yum, yum. Yummy.
Terry: You got a second, Captain? I've got these overtime forms for you to s...
Holt: Are you stifling a yawn?
Terry: No, sir.
Holt: Go home, Sergeant.
Terry: I'm fine. And I filled this out. I just need you to... Permission to yawn, sir.
Holt: Go home.
AMY WALKS IN WITH DEODORANT
Amy: Please, I'm begging you.
Jake:  (sniffs) Oh, fair enough.
Amy: Yeah. (chuckle)
Jake: That's for women. These your glasses?
Amy: Mm-hmm.
Jake: They're gigantic.
Amy: My contacts dried out, thanks to you. And they're cool.
Jake: (tries them on) No, they're not. Wow, you are blind blind.
Amy: Yeah.
Jake: You're a blind cop. How has there not been a made-for-TV movie about your struggles?
Amy: Give those back.
Jake: Yeah, okay. Wait a minute. I did it. I got Whitman, dead to rights.
Amy: I can still make my date?
Jake: As I promised. Go get changed. And by that, of course I mean throw your glasses in the garbage, then get laser surgery, then recuperate... And she left the room.
CHARLES TRYING THE PIES
Charles: It's all right. 6 out of 12.
Gina: Out of 12? Why?
Charles: For the 12 components of food satisfaction: Salty, sweet, sour, bitter, umami, odor, sound...
Gina: Sound? Come on, Charles. Try her nasty pie.
Charles: Oh, wow. That's the best pie I ever had.
Rosa: (laughs)
Gina: No, no. No, no, no.
Terry: What's this?
Charles: We were running calls to pawn shops and then waiting for them to call back.
Terry: I didn't ask what you were doing. I asked what you are doing.
Rosa: Pie taste test, it's over. I won.
Terry: That's unacceptable. If you wanna know which restaurant has better pies, you can't just have one guy try one pie from each place. Everybody needs to try all the pies from both places. We gonna be here awhile.


Jake: Debit card statement. You were at a parking meter two blocks from the jewelry store an hour before the robbery.
Dustin: Oh, no, you found out... About my wife. We both have cards, because we share a joint account, because we love each other.
Jake: You're incapable of love, and I'll prove it! Oh, I'm very tired.
Dustin: I want my lawyer, now.
Jake: Ugh! You have changed. You used to go straight to prison!
TIME TO DEADLINE 17 HRS 02 MINS
Amy: Did Whitman talk?
Jake: Oh, he talked all right.
Holt: He asked for his lawyer.
Jake: By using words, which is technically talking. We can't ask him any more questions till we find his lawyer, and we can't find his lawyer anywhere. I'm sorry.
Amy: Aah, come on. Why is there pie here?
Jake: That's not good. I think the world of you, as a colleague and friend.
Amy: Shut up, Peralta.
Jake: Yep.
TIME TO DEADLINE 15?HRS 37 MINS
Gina: Yes!
Terry: Another one for Crust. It's not looking good for Flatbush Diner.
Rosa: Ah, come on!
Jake: You went home and showered? That's so unfair.
Charles: I'm just glad I keep a toothbrush here.
Jake: Oh, cool. Hey, can I borrow it?
Charles: Uh, why do you wanna borrow the toothbrush?
Amy: What possible answer could he give that would make you say yes?
Jake: I wanna brush my teeth.
Charles: Jake, it's been in my mouth.
Amy: That's the grossest thing I've ever heard.
Jake: That's the grossest thing you've ever heard? You caught a guy on the subway with a bag of human ears.
Amy: Your thing's grosser.
Terry: Bring out the meringues.
Gina: I brought a few more.
Jake: That's so many.


Terry: You wanted something, sir?
Holt: Look, it's impossible to make you leave. But you do have to sleep, and that's an order.
Terry: Sir, this is not necessary. Also, can't sleep without my whale songs.
Holt: Terry, I've seen this before. Problems at home, so you stay late at the job, but that only makes it worse.
Terry: Everything's great with my wife. It's just, my brother-in-law's in town, and we do not get along. He thinks I'm a weakling.
Holt: You?


Terry grabs a pickle jar
BROTHER IN LAW: Let me get that for you.
Terry: I can do it.
BIL: Tiny Terry loves his pickles.
END OF FLASHBACK
Terry: He makes me feel so small.
Holt: Who cares what he thinks? You're a police sergeant. You're a grown man. Now take your nap. And if I see the lights on in here, I'm gonna be very disappointed in you.
TIME TO DEADLINE 10 HRS 06 MINS
Lawyer: Are you the idiot that made a Friday night arrest? I was in the poconos with my wife. You ruined my entire weekend.
Jake: Get in line, because that's their attitude. Get your own attitude.
Lawyer: He has an alibi, geniuses. He was at Torque. It's a nightclub in Cape May, New Jersey, all night.
Jake: Nice try. You think I'm gonna waste six hours driving to the Jersey Shore and back on some fake alibi?
Lawyer: It's up to you. But in ten hours, he walks.
Jake: More like in ten hours, he walks into prison, when we bust him.
Holt: Let's follow up on his alibi.
Jake: Yep, you heard him, Scully, hit the road.
Holt: No. You should've looked into this before you made the arrest. You go.
Scully: Oh, Captain, I'm happy to go. I love the saltwater taffy down there.
Jake: Scully loves the saltwater taffy down there.
Holt: No, Peralta's going. Go, Peralta.
Jake: Look, I know I caused this problem, but I can fix it. We just got some new security footage in. Let me stay here and go through it. I'm gonna prove that Whitman was at the scene of the crime, even if it kills me.
TIME TO DEADLINE 03 HRS 04 MINS
Jake: This is killing me.
Amy: Good. Die.
Jake: (sighs) You know, if it does come to that, I have but one wish before I go. Can I please put your glasses on my pen1s? I just think that would be really funny.
Gina: (enters the copy room) Hey, can you make copies of these warrant requests for me? I'm not your secretary.
Charles: You're everyone's secretary. That's literally your job.
Gina: And your job is lying about your taste buds?
Charles: (sighs) I'm sorry about the whole pie blowup thing. You're right. The Flatbush Diner pie is awful.
Gina: Thank you.
Charles: It's just... I want Rosa to like me.
Gina: All right, do whatever you want, but most women don't really like it when dudes lie to them. Except for me, but I'm wired to thrive on dysfunction.
[Amy and Jake watching surveillance tapes]
Amy: Nothing. Wait, wait, wait. This guy... 5'9 " or 5'10", black knit cap. Come on, come on, come on.
Jake: Gotcha!
Amy: Ugh, it's not him. Let's just arrest this guy. Who even cares anymore?
Jake: : So how'd my new best friend Luke take it when you cancelled on him again?
Amy: Don't know, hasn't called me back. Which is what always happens, because it's impossible to be a cop and date.
Jake: Amy, look. There is a guy out there with incredibly low standards and a super weird soul patch, and he is waiting for you. Amy, my patch tingles for you. We will wed on the isle of New Jersey. Our first dance will be to Jessie's girl, because my name is definitely Jessie.
Amy: It's so romantic.
Scully: Hey, guys.
Jake: Hey.
Scully: Yeah, there's good news, and there's bad news. The bad news is my saltwater taffy place was closed.
Holt: And the good news?
Scully: Whitman's alibi checked out. Security footage from Torque shows he was there.
Jake: That's not good news. That's bad news.
Scully: Right. That is bad news. Sorry, it's on me.
Holt: No, Detective Scully, it's on Peralta.
Jake: No, Captain, that's on Santiago.
(Amy smacks his arm)
Jake: It's on me. It's still on me.
TIME TO DEADLINE 00 HRS 41 MINS
Terry: This is such a disaster.
Holt: It's not good. D.A.'s furious. Whitman and his lawyer are in my office right now, gunning for a lawsuit.
Terry: No, not that. My brother-in-law is coming to have dinner with me on his way to JFK. But also the botched investigation, that's bad too.
[Jake wheels in boxes]
Amy: Okay, what can I do?
Jake: Oh, your services will not be necessary, because you need to go home and change for your date.
Amy: What?
Jake: I called handsome Luke. I explained the weekend was entirely my fault, partially. And he wants to go out with you tonight.
Amy: Thanks, Peralta.
Jake: You're welcome. Just promise me you won't use the condoms in the secret pocket of your purse, okay? They're expired.
Amy: How do you know what's in my purse?
Jake: I needed concealer for a zit. Plus, you know, we spend so much time together here, I know everything about everyone. I know Hitchcock went bald at 15. Scully used to date Hitchcock's wife. Charles has a bike with a little basket on the front. How else would you carry baguettes? And Rosa has a shower in her apartment, I think. I got nothing on her.
Rosa: Good.
Amy: Well, I guess we did just spend 48 hours locked in here together.
Jake: Holy crap.
Amy: What?
Jake: Locked in here together.


Lawyer: So we will be filing a wrongful arrest suit against the NYPD.
Dustin: And when I win, I'm gonna buy club Torque, put a statue of Jake Peralta right in the middle of the dance floor.
Jake: First off, that's a terrible threat. I would love to have a statue of myself in the middle of a dance club. Second... [clears throat] Do me a favor, take a look at this picture, and tell me what you see.
Dustin: You and Regis Philbin.
Jake: Awesome, right? Surprisingly down-to-earth guy and definitely not the picture I meant to show you. But take a look at this. That's right, it's you and your old cell mate Marcus Cole. And here he is again outside the jewelry store. The two of you planned this together in prison. You taught him your M.O, he pulled off the robbery, you got yourself an alibi, and you split the loot. Oh, man, I can't believe he caught us. [As Regis Philbin] Of course he did, Peralta is the best! Aw, thanks, Reg.
Holt: That's enough.
Jake: Yeah, I gotta work on my Regis. Anyway, see ya in jail, Whitman.
Holt: You got anything else to say?
[Charles goes to Rosa's desk]
Charles: Hey, Rosa, the Flatbush Diner's pie is terrible. It's inedible. Food is supposed to be edible.
Rosa: So you were lying? What the hell, Boyle?
Gina: (giggles) Put it in the suck-it bucket.
Charles: Crust isn't any better. It's fancier, but it's all bells and whistles. Desserts don't need to be clever. They just need to be good. This is the best pie in New York City... Apple from Argos Bakery, founded 1910. Recipe unchanged. Taste it.
Rosa: Damn, it is amazing.
Gina: This pie is so good, I hate it.
Charles: You just graduated pie school, bitches. Sorry I said "bitches," I'm just really worked up.
Gina: Yow! Mmm, what is that?
Jake: Sorry for screwing up everyone's weekend. Hey, uh, drinks on me. Who's in?
Scully: Oh, no way.
Amy: No, I got the date. I gotta change.
Jake: Come on.
Holt: Everyone's tired, Peralta. They just wanna go home.
Jake: Yeah, but I have to prove I'm not selfish, so I don't care what they want. That sounded bad. And to make up for what I did, I'll cover one shift each for all of you.
Rosa: {laughs)
Hitchcock: No kidding?
Jake: Except Santiago.
Amy: What?
Jake: I got you your date back. One nice thing from me is all you get.
[Terry shows his brother in law the precinct]
Terry: So this is my desk.
Brother in law: Desk jockey, huh? You just sit here, eat your pickles, wait for the criminals to turn themselves in.
Terry: Actually, I don't like pickles that much.
Holt: Terry, I'm glad I found you. There's been a development in the Russian mob case.
Terry: Oh?
Holt: Yeah, our killer has been spotted in the warehouse down by the canal. Get your gear.
Terry: So you want me first through the door, sir?
Holt: Oh, it's just you. The SWAT team is on another call, so you'll have to do it alone.
Terry: Hey, I'm not gonna be able to make dinner tonight.
BROTHER IN LAW: Hey, no, do your thing, do your thing. Go, Terry.
Holt: You can crash on my couch. I even downloaded you some whale songs.
Terry: Thank you, sir. I'll never forget it.
Holt: Good night, Terry.

Amy: Careful!

Rosa: You only get one shot at this, Peralta.

Jake: Don't worry. I know what I'm doing. I saw the first 15 minutes of The Hurt Locker.

Amy: Hurry! The stench is too much. We gotta get those shoes outta here.

Rosa: How much time do we have?

Jake: Scully ate his pot pie 30 minutes ago, so we probably got 10 minutes left on this nap. 12 if he's turkey tired. All right, come to papa. [Groans]It's trapped. Abort mission.

Charles: I have an idea...

[Suspenseful music] Jake helps Charles into a bomb squad safe suit, he successfully picks them up

Outside the squad is behind cement, safety away from Scully's shoes

♪

Jake: Let's send these shoes to hell. Oh, wait.

Rosa: [Coughs]

Jake: Yeah, just smells worse than before.

Oh... Ugh!

Jake: Abort! ♪

99 intro

Amy walks in with Charles and Rosa

Amy: Whoa! Why are you here before me? Am I asleep? Is this a dream?

Jake: I am early because Jimmy Brogan is here today.

Rosa: Why do you care so much about some old reporter?

Jake: Some old reporter? Is the sky just some big blue hat that the world wears?

Rosa: No. And no one has ever thought that.

Jake: My point exactly. Jimmy Brogan wrote The Squad about badass New York cops in the '70s. It's the best book I've ever read, and I've read 15 books.

Amy: 50 books is not a lot. Wait... You said 15?

Jake: The Squad is what made me decide to become a Detective. And it was my first book report.

FLASHBACK

Young Jake:  "The detectives wiped the mobsters' blood off their boots and found the scag." Scag is heroin, and the book says it's so good, you can never stop doing it!

Teacher: See me after class, Jacob.

END FLASHBACK

Jake: Fun side note... I late lost my virginity to Mrs. Stratton's daughter. It was... very fast.

Charles: Nice. (Holding coffee)

Captain Holts office

Holt: Mr. Brogan, these are detectives Santiago and Peralta.

Jake: Mr. Brogan, I am a huge fan of your book. Would you mind signing my copy?

Brogan: I'd love to. It's always nice to meet a fan.

Jake:'You can just make it out to "death wish." That's what everyone calls me, 'cause I'm always first through the door.

Amy: You go through doors normally, and everyone calls you pineapples.

Jake: My grandma calls me pineapples, and I regret telling you that. Those New York cops from the '70s you wrote about were my idols... I mean, Gaminsky, Cavanaugh, Quigg.

Brogan: Those guys were the real deal. I once saw Gaminsky choke a hippy to death with his own ponytail.

Amy: Illegal.

Jake: Love that.

Holt: Mr. Brogan is writing an article about how Brooklyn detectives have changed in the 35 years since The Squad. He'll be observing the two of you on your lnternet identity theft case. I hope Mr. Brogan's presence doesn't prove to be a distraction to you, Peralta.

Jake: Distracted? Me? No, sir. Evil would love that. But I'm not giving evil the satisfaction. Not today.

Brogan: Where's the can? I gotta unload.

Jake: "Unload." Great choice of words. It'd be an honor to show you, sir.

Briefing room

Terry: All right. Everyone's here. Today we're gonna work on our courtroom demeanor.

Rosa: Pass.

Terry: This seminar is not optional, Diaz. You're testifying in an aggravated assault case tomorrow. The D.A. is worried about how you present yourself on the stand.

Rosa: Why? I'm fine on the stand.

FLASHBACKS

Rosa on the stand:  Look, I'll make this real simple so even these dum-dums can understand. Man did crime.

Another court hearing

Rosa: I'm sorry... can you make her stop doing that weird thing with her face?

Male Lawyer: Crying?

Another court hearing

Rosa: And when this is over, I'm gonna find you, and I'm gonna break those little fingers.

Judge: [Taps gavel] Ms. Diaz. Please stop threatening the stenographer!

END OF FLASHBACKS

Terry: This is an important case. You need to do well.

Rosa: Fine. I'll take your dumbass seminar.

Charles: That's the spirit!

Amy's desk

Amy: Someone has placed tiny scanners inside ATMs to steal card numbers and pins which they sell on the lnternet. Oh, good God, why do you smell like an ashtray?

Jake: Oh, sorry, mom. It's the only way I can cope with the stress of the job.

Flashback

Jake applying ash from the cigarette ash tray outside [Groaning] Pffft!

End of flashback

Amy: Anyway... We're running an algorithm to comb through the transactions looking for a pattern which will lead us to the perp's IP address.

Brogan: Got it. "Boring mumbo jumbo."

Jake: Well, you could think of the algorithm as a boot and the IP address as some poor slob's skull. [Smack] You know?

Brogan: We used to call guys who bragged about sitting around all day hair bags. [Chuckling] Except for Detective Finaldi. No, he had to sit around all day. A mafia thug pried both his kneecaps off with a crowbar.

Jake: [Whispers] Gah... so lucky.

Amy: This kind of data-driven police work has reduced crime by over 70%.

Brogan: I know hair bag work when I see it. Do me a favor... wake me when your shift is over.

Jake snaps his fingers: No way.

Amy waves her hand in front of Brogan

Jake: That is amazing!

Briefing room

Terry: All you need is for a jury to like you. If they like you, they'll trust you.

Rosa: Fine. How do I get these morons to like me?

Terry: Don't call them morons.

Terry: Good instinct!

Charles: Okay. Sit up straight, all right? Be aware of your hands, okay? And don't be afraid to smile. And if you need to buy time, you can always just say, "to be perfectly candid..."

Rosa:To be perfectly candid... I like that.

Terry: And always make good eye contact.

Charles: But don't stare at people.

Terry: Yeah. You gotta blink.

Charles: But don't blink too much.

Terry: Or too fast.

Charles: I think the bigger worry is slow blinks.

Terry: Don't blink too fast or too slow or too much or too little.

Rosa: I know how to blink.

Captain Holts office

Jake: Quick question, sir. You know how we've been trading favors back and forth and it's your turn to give me one?

Holt: None of that is true.

Jake: Yeah, I know. Please, can I jump onto a sweet mob-related homicide?

Holt: There are no sweet mob-related homicides on which to jump.

Jake: Boom! There's one at the seven-three. Maybe I should roll over there, help out. Brogan can tag along, maybe write some stuff down.

Holt:Why do you idolize that man and the time he wrote about?

Jake: Because the '70s were amazing. I mean, everyone had thick, juicy moustaches and all the clothes were orange and flammable.

Holt: The '70s were not a good time for the city or for the department... Corruption, brutality, sexism. Diaz and Santiago never would have made Detective, and an openly gay man like me... I never would have been given a command. There were very few black detectives. Did I ever tell you what my first day on the job was like?

Flashback

Holt walks in the briefing room full of white detectives

[Background chatter]

Holt: Hello. I'm Raymond Holt.

White guy: Are you... here to turn yourself in?

End of flashback

Jake: Ah, yeah, that's really messed up. But the guys that Brogan wrote about... They were great detectives. I mean, they were legit.

Holt: Some of them were legit. Some of them were just Brogan's drinking buddies.

Jake: Sir, that is a brilliant idea.

Holt: It wasn't an idea. It was a scathing indictment of your personal hero.

Jake: Eh, six of one.

BAR

Amy, Jake, and Brogan are at a table

Jake: This is the best! Drinking with Jimmy Brogan. So tell me more about Quigg. Could he really light a matchstick on his face?

Brogan: One time during a drug bust, he had one of his fingers shot off. He didn't even flinch. He just picked it up and used it to flip off every puerto rican in the place.

Amy: And that's my cue. It's late.

Brogan: Are you kidding? The old guard drank till dawn, ate some coffee grounds, then started the whole day all over again.

Jake: Pfft! I eat coffee grounds.

Amy: Sure you do, pineapples.

Brogan: How about another round?

Jake: Are you kidding me? I wanna hang with you till one of us dies.

Brogan: Look, I'm tired of talking. Why don't you tell me some of your stories?

Jake: Great. 'Cause I got some stories that'll make Training Day look like Super Troopers. Eh, it's not... bartender. Two scotches.

Brogan: No, no, he meant two bottles.

Jake: What? I mean... yeah!

Bartender: here ya go

Jake: Aaaalll... right! [Laughs]

Precinct next morning

A struggling Perp: You'll never get me! You'll never get me!

Jake: We already got you, idiot.

Amy; Look who's here. How was your night of old-school drinking, hmm? Pretty hung over?

Jake: Shh! Turn off your mouth siren.

Amy: Here are the texts I got from you last night. "Best night ever." "Why scotch burn so good?" "Whaz his name in Serpico?" "Who's the friend of yours with the ping-pong?" And lastly, a picture of you on the subway platform eating Chinese chicken salad with no shirt on.

Jake: [Laughs] Well, last night was awesome. We had an epic night of bonding that I will never forget.

Flashback

A drunk Jake with a lemon on his head

Jake: [Slurring] Do it! I believe in you.

Brogan throws the dart and it's impaled in Jakes right boob

Jake: Throw it! I believe in you.

End of Flashback

Jake: Man, I wonder if Brogan's okay. He's 65 and drank two bottles of scotch. He might be dead.

Amy; He looks fine to me.

Brogan: Morning, kid! Ooh! How ya doing?

Jake: Uh... hey... So good. I feel great. And I definitely don't think it's burning hot in here.

Brogan: Well, I'm around. Grab me if anything develops in your case. (Smacks Jakes back)

Jake: [Laughs/wheezes] You got it. That hurt so bad. Let me know when he's gone so I can slide onto the nice, cool floor.

Amy: He's gone.

Jake; Great. Mmm... Oh... my whole body has dry mouth.

Ladies restroom

Rosa: Why are we meeting in the ladies' room?

Terry: It's the perfect place for our second lesson... Courthouse wardrobe.

Rosa: What's wrong with the way I dress?

Charles: You know, some people might say that all the black leather kind of makes you looks like an evil villain. Not me. I think you look like a sexy motorcycle.

Terry: Boyle, pull it together.

Charles: Yeah.

Terry: We need to soften up your look. My wife and Charles's mom donated some clothes.

Rosa: Your wife and Boyle's mom are both blind?

Rosa walks out in a red blazer, white shirt, and squirt  

Rosa: I look like arsenio.

Charles: So it's... perfect?

Rosa walks out in a burgundy suit

Charles: That's actually my wedding suit.

Rosa: No.

Rosa walks out in a black dress with a cheetah chaisng an animal

Rosa: Yes.

Charles:No.

Terry: No.

Rosa walks out in a navy suit and skirt and light blue shirt

Terry: That's great.

Charles: Perfect! You look beautiful... ly... Appropriate for court.

♪ A new sensation ♪

Jake resting on his desk.

Jake: [groaning] Ohh... Scully.

Scully: Hey, Jake.

Jake: You've been alive forever. How'd you used to cure hangovers?

Scully: Oh, I didn't drink. I was, however, extremely into cocaine for most of 1986.

Flashback

Scully: I gotta tell you the truth, Hitchcock... Can I tell you the truth? You and me, man. We're gonna be co-captains. But first I'm taking you to Japan!

Hitchcock: I'm already packed!

End of flashback

Scully: I had three heart attacks that year and declared bankruptcy. Hitchcock turned out just fine.

Amy: My grandpa was an old-school cop. This was his hangover cure... Raw egg yolks.

Jake: Aaahhh!

Holt: You look like a corpse we just pulled out of the river.

Jake: Wrong. I look like a cool rock star who oded in his own pool. Big difference.

Holt:: I told you not to let Jimmy Brogan distract you from your work. So I assume you're not too hung over to do said work?

Jake: Pfft. Nope. It's like I never even drank.

Holt: And that's not a hangover cure.

Jake: What, that? Naw, it's just some... Protein for my guns. I drink one every morning before I lift. So... Gah! Ah ha ha! So good! You can barely even tell it's a chicken embryo.

Holt; You should drink it all. For your guns.

Jake: [Grunts]

Amy: Yeah.

Jake: [Gulping] Agh. Ah, it's just like... Fitness, right?

Amy: mhm

Precinct

Jake: Oh, why did I do this?

Amy: According to your text, you were having "the beef light of my loaf."

Jake: What? No, no. Why did I use this algorithm? We're only tracking people who use the stolen cards. They might not be the same as the ones who stole them. Here, switch seats with me. Oh, wow. Your butt's really warm.

Amy: My butt's normal. Your butt's the weird one.

Jake: Don't be mad. It's nice. All right, so if we ignore all these fraudulent purchases and go back far enough... Here. Someone posted the stolen card numbers online from this IP address.

Amy: Not bad! You found the pattern.

Jake: All right, let's aspirin up and roll out! Ah... ohh! Ohh...

Outside

[Beep beep]

Jake: I'm glad you could be here for this.

[Beep beep]

Jake: Mike Halbrook. NYPD. Open up.

Brogan: Put your head through the door.

Jake: My head?

Mike jumps out lands on trash cans

Amy: We got a runner! Stop!

Jake: Hands in the air! Oh, wow.

Amy takes Mike down

Jake: Hoo! Yeah! Good job. I'm never drinking again. Hey. You know, I was gonna take him out myself, but ladies first, so...

Brogan: Relax, kid. Being too hung over to chase a perp? That's a classic old-school move. You know, you are one of the last few good cops fighting against the rising tide of hair bags.

Jake: That's what you're gonna say in your article?

Brogan: Ah, don't worry, you're gonna come out lookin' real good. Especially after our talk in the bar. Ah... So many good quotes! Especially about Holt. Cops are usually afraid to go after their captains like that, but you, sir, are old-school.

Jake: You know it.

Amy: Oh, pineapples... What did you do?

Court house:

Judge: Your witness counselor.

Make lawyer: Detective Diaz, it's always a pleasure to see you.

Charles: This is not good. The lawyer is that slimeball grundhaven... Rosa hates him!

Terry: She's dressed right. We coached her. She'll be okay.

Lawyer: Would you please state your name for the record?

Rosa: To be perfectly candid... My name is Detective Rosa Diaz.

Lawyer: Well, thank you for your candor regarding your own name. [Chuckles] Detective Diaz, would you please tell the court exactly how you're involved in this case?

Rosa: I caught Mr. Ladd physically beating his boss with a fax machine. Most of his cheek was caved in. His head was basically a blood fountain.

Lawyer: I'm sorry, is this amusing to you, Ms. Diaz?

Terry and Charles:  [Mouthing] Blinking.

Judge: are you alright detective?

[Police radio chatter]

Jake: Oh, no. Brogan just sent me the quotes he's gonna run. I slammed Holt like 50 times. Listen. "Holt would rather I wear a tie than solve a case. Holt cares more about catching clerical errors than catching bad guys. Holt is way too verticulis"? That's not even a word!

Amy: What were you thinking? We were just hanging out, being old-school. He wasn't supposed to quote me. I was off the record the whole time. Oh, no wait.

Flashback  

Jake: I'm goin' on the record. Jake Peralta... Can dance! Whoo! Whoo!

(Jake dances on the bar)

Jake: [Singsong] Jimmy Brogan!

End of flashback

Amy: You need to fix this, okay? Those quotes cannot run. It would be devastating for Holt. And the department.

Jake: I'll fix it. Brogan's a cool guy. We're friends now. I'll just talk to him, awesome dude to awesome dude. I should brush my teeth first, though, right?

Amy: Mm-hmm.

Jake: Yeah, that's terrible. Ugh!

Court house

Rosa: Great advice, dummies. I look like a psycho up there!

Charles: Yes. You have to pull it together.

Rosa: That's not helping!

Charles: That's what sarge says to me when I'm nervous. Rosa, I think you're nervous.

Rosa: Of course I'm nervous! What did you think was the problem?

Terry: We just assumed you were a terrifying human being with a short fuse.

Charles: But if the problem is that you're nervous, that's where Charles Boyle lives, baby. I can help! You just need to go to your happy place.

Rosa: What's that? Sounds stupid.

Charles: Oh, everyone's happy place is different. For me, I just imagine I'm slurping up the world's longest piece of linguini. It just keeps going and going. Every 20 feet of noodle, there's a sauce change. I'm in my happy place right now. Mmm... pesto. [Slurps] Mmm! Carbonara!

Rosa: Great! Now I'm starving!

Brooklyn Russian SPA FOR MEN

Jake: Hey, hey, Jimmy Brogan. Thanks for meeting me.

Brogan: Welcome to the Schvitz, kid. The most comfortable place on earth. It's like crawling back into your mother.

Jake: Is that something people wanna do?

Jake: What'd you wanna talk to me about? So I read those quotes you sent me, and you... Wrote them so good. The thing is... I know I hid it incredibly well, but I was pretty drunk when I said that stuff, so... Any chance you wouldn't print it?

Jake: Well, you said you were going on the record. I was clearly not in control.

Brogan: Well, maybe you should learn to handle your brown.

Jake: Eew. Look, you know that I think you're like the number one hero of the 20th century. But kinda feel like you're being unfair here.

Brogan: "Feel like"? Listen to her, Suzanne Somers over here. Talk like a man.

Jake: All right, I will talk like a man. You got me drunk and took advantage of me.

Brogan: Oh, come on.

Jake: Gah! Look, I'm asking you nicely... Please don't print the quotes.

Brogan: And I'm telling you nicely, I'm printing them.

Jake: No, you're not.

Brogan: What are you gonna do about it? [Chuckles]

Precinct

Amy: Hey, how'd it go with Brogan?

Jake: Perfect. Except I punched him in the face and made everything a billion times worse.

Amy: What?

Flashback

Jake punches Brogan making fall into the pool

End of flashback

Court room

Lawyer: Yeah. So, Detective Diaz, you saw my client struggling with his boss, but you don't know who initiated the fight.

Rosa: To be perfectly candid, I was pretty sure it was the defendant.

Lawyer: Oh, to be perfectly candid, "pretty sure" is not definitive.

Rosa: I think I know what happened.

Lawyer: Well, to be perfectly candid, no one cares what you think. Do you actually know anything, or are you just guessing?

Rosa: Your client instigated the fight. I'm certain. And I'm happy to tell you why.

Charles & Terry: [Silently] Yes!

Charles: She went to her happy place.

Terry: I know that, Boyle.

Captain Holts office

Holt: You punched Jimmy Brogan? What were you thinking?

Jake: I was thinking that I needed to protect this precinct. From things that I said about this precinct to a reporter while drunk and insisting he record me. I shouldn't have done it.

Holt: Unbelievable. Every time I think you might make a decent Detective, you go and pull something like this.

Jake: I thought I could handle my brown. Oh, I'm sorry. It's gross.

Holt: Go home! You got the rest of the day to put your head on straight.

Precinct

Holt: Got Halbrook to cop to every charge. Nice work, Santiago.

Amy: Thank you, sir. Peralta figured out the pattern, though, so he should get credit for the collar. Have you seen him?

Holt: I sent him home. He assaulted Jimmy Brogan.

Amy: Yeah. But that caveman kinda had it coming, don't you think? Oh. He didn't tell you.

Holt: Tell me what?

Amy: Never mind. If Jake didn't tell you, he must have had a reason. It's not my place.

Holt: I'm disappointed in you, Santiago. I thought you and I were close.

Amy: I know you're manipulating me... But I love it, and I will tell you anything. So Jake went to the Schvitz to talk to Brogan.

Flashback

Brogan: What are you gonna do about it? [Chuckles]

Jake: There's nothing I can do... Except to ask you nicely as a fan of you, your work, and the guys you wrote about... Please don't print the quotes.

Brogan: Sheesh. I didn't realize you were gonna get your panties all in a pretzel!

Jake: That's actually not technically possible. I'm not wearing underwear. It is swampy in here. My butt's like the everglades.

Brogan: Look, I know you're trying to be legit in a hair bag world, so I will not print your quotes.

Jake: Ah, thank you, thank you! That means the world to me. And for the record, I know that Holt is a stickler, but he's actually a really good cop.

Brogan: Don't worry about it. We're friends. You don't have to stick up for that homo.

Jake: I really wish you hadn't just said that.

Brogan: What, homo? Ooh!

Jake punches him

End of flashback

Holt: Thank you, Santiago. That'll be all.

Bullpen, Precinct

Rosa walks in

Charles: Here she is.

They clap

Terry:Diaz, you did it. They found him guilty on all charges.

Rosa: Huh. Boyle's advice worked.

Charles: [Shrill giggle] So... Where's your happy place?

Rosa: I'm in a cabin in the middle of nowhere. Inside it's just me and that stupid, slimy defense attorney.

And I'm beating the hell out of him. I break a dining room table over his head. Then I rip off his arm and shove it where the sun don't shine. Then I reach down his throat and shake his hand.

Terry: Yeah. Okay. I'm gonna go ahead and schedule you for a psych eval.

Rosa: I owe you one, Boyle. Thank-you dinner. Tomorrow night. Gribaldi's. It's all-you-can-eat linguini.

Charles: Yes!

Rosa: Oh, my boyfriend's coming too.

Charles: Your what friend now?

Jake walks in

Jake: All right. Let's hear it.

Amy: Well, it's even worse than I imagined. [Ahem] "The new face of the NYPD is perfectly embodied by Brooklyn's own Jake Peralta..."

Jake: That's not so bad.

Amy: "Who cowers behind his desk all day like the true hair bag that he is."

Jake: There it is.

Amy: "The old guard would have eaten a guy like Peralta for breakfast and unloaded him by lunch."

Jake: Well, it's very colorful. And hurtful.

Holt: You can ignore that garbage, Santiago. Jimmy Brogan wouldn't know a legit cop if he punched him in the face.

Jake: Well... Guess I'm done with this.

Amy: Not good enough.

Amy, Scully, Jake, Rosa, Hitchcock and Boyle are outside crouched behind a block of cement

Jake: Three, two, one... [Beep beep]

(The book explodes)

Jake: Welcome to the party, pal!

Amy: God, you love that movie.

Jake: It's Die Hard.

Jake: Oh, this is amazing. This is so amazing. Everything about this is amazing.

Terry: What are you talking about?

Jake: A virus got on the server and sent all of us an email with everyone's search histories. Check this out. Sergeant Jeffords searched the lnternet for "undiscovered muscle."

Terry: I was working out and saw a muscle in my shoulder I'd never seen before. I thought it might've been a scientific discovery.

Gina: Listen to this. Scully searched for "how much fudge is in a calorie?"

Scully: I never found the answer, but it was a good question.

Rosa. Boyle looked up, "how to make desk yogurt."

Charles: Yes, I did, and I am thrilled with the results. Although the jar is really hot.

Jake: That's gross. And Amy searched for "Daniel Craig hands" plus "close up." Ugh.

Amy: You should talk. You searched for "cheapest date possible."

Jake: And I wear that search like badge of honor.

Flashback

Jake: So, ready for dinner? Here we go. [Grunts] (Jake sticks his hand in the vending machine)

Jake: Would you like something sweet? Or maybe savory? Apple pie... And I'm stuck. I'm stuck!

End of flashback

Intro to b99 ♪

President

Jake: Peralta. Hey, Sal. To what do I owe the honor? Oh, my God. Yeah, we'll be right there. Boyle...

Sal's Pizza

Jake: No! I can't believe Sal's is gone. This place is an institution. It's the best pizza in the neighborhood.

Charles: Well, eighth-best. But yeah, a tragedy. I mean, any food-related crime is a tragedy. [Siren blares] Oh, no. Heads up, fire marshal.

Jake: Oh, Boone. What's that nimrod doing here?

Boone: Hey, Peralta.

Jake: Hey, Boone. What are you doing here, you nimrod?

Boone: Uh, there was a fire. Big question is, what are you doing here? What, did somebody call in a missing doughnut?

Jake: Uh, actually someone reported they couldn't find your head. But we found it. It was up your butt. You're a fireman, you should know how to treat that burn.

(Charles & Jake high five)

Boone: Joke's on you, 'cause this is a fire, which means it is fire department jurisdiction. So why don't you back off and let New York's bravest handle it?

Jake: You know they only call you that because "New York's best at spraying stuff with water" is too wordy.

Charles giggles

Jake: Ha, well, it's too bad we all can't be as awesome as New York's finest, which by the way, sounds like my mom describing her dishware, which... and she's dead, so let's tread lightly on the response.

Jake: That's not fair. Yeah. Well, look, we heard this might be arson, so we wanted to check it out.

Boone: No, I'm not letting you onto my crime scene. Okay?

Jake: All right, fine. You know what? You're not invited to our next murder.

Captain Holt office

Holt: Good solve on the Herman Avenue burglaries. Finish up the paperwork as soon as possible.

Amy: Your wish is my command.

Holt: No, that was actually a command. So my command is your command.

Amy: Well, then I guess you still have all three of your wishes.

Rosa: You're not a genie.

Amy: I know that. Okay. We're leaving.

Rosas desk

Amy: What was the name of the clerk we questioned about the second burglary?

Rosa? Where do farts go? I was reading Scully's searches. Hey, why'd you do a search for "magic-themed singles night"?

Amy: My last four dates were really boring, so I thought I'd mix things up.

Flashback

A guy sets fire and makes a dove appear

Amy: Oh, wow. [Laughs] [Poof]

Guys clothes disappear leaving him in his white underwear : Ta-da!

Amy: Oh, no.

End of flashback

Amy: What about you? Why were you looking for real estate in Ropesburg, New Jersey?

Amy: Ropesburg P.D. Offered me a job as their new police Captain. I turned it down.

Amy:!Oh! You... Captain. [Chuckles] Oh... that's super... Super cool. (Amy rolls away from rosas desk, only gets half way to hers and pushes herself to her desk, very awkwardly)

Charlas & Jake walk in

Jake: If we're gonna figure out what happened at Sal's, we've gotta get past those firemen. We need access. How 'bout this? We light a bunch of fires throughout Brooklyn, and when the firemen go to "fight the fires," we walk right into Sal's, the crime scene's ours.

Charles: Why do we want to start a turf war with the fire department? I feel very uncomfortable saying this to you, but it doesn't seem like it's worth it... Unless you think it is.

Jake: I do. Like I said, Sal's is an institution, and it's the best pizza in the neighborhood.

Charles: I'm sorry, Jake, Sal's is only the eighth-best. I put out a weekly Brooklyn pizza-ranking email blast. Sal's has the fourth-best texture, ninth-best crust, twelfth-best cheese, and honestly, they're only seventh in mouth-feel.

Jake: "Mouth-feel"? What is that?

Charles: The inside of your cheeks are very sensitive. It's like the inside of your thighs, except with a tongue.

Jake: Ugh, God. Look, no, Sal's has the secret sauce recipe that puts all the other pizza places to shame. But more importantly, fire marshal Boone is incapable of conducting a crime investigation. All fire marshals are doofuses, but Boone is King doofus of doofus island.

Flashback

Boone: Gasoline? I'm pretty sure that's water. Only one way to tell.

Boone throws a cigarette at the puddle

Jake: There were more ways to tell.

End of flashback

Jake: And he's their leader.

Terrys desk

Terry: Captain, here's the mope who hacked our computer system. His mother turned him in. His name is Corey Park.

Corey: My name is savant.

Terry: His web handle is "savant." His people name is Corey Park.

Holt: Why'd you target us with your computer virus, Corey?

Corey: I don't know, I was bored, and it was easy to break into your weak-ass system. It was like taking candy from a baby.

Terry: Why are you giving candy to a baby in the first place? Don't give candy to a baby! They can't brush their teeth!

Holt; Yes, sergeant, it is unwise to give babies candy. If it's so easy for this gentlemen to break into our system, we may need to hire a new I.T. Director. Why don't you and Gina get together on that?

Terry: I doubt I'll need Gina's help. I'm sure she's busy anyway.

Gina is cutting her own hair

Holt: Use Gina. She's my assistant, and she has something to offer. Trust me.

Terry: Man, don't be hacking into my stuff.

Charles: Uh-oh, Jake, firemen.

Jake: What are you two doing here?

Firemen #1: You're a Detective, you detect it out.

Firemen #2: Good one, bro.

Firemen #1: I know, bro.

Firemen #2: Yeah, bro.

Jake: Wow, it's like watching meet the press.

Firemen #1: Boone reconsidered. He wants you to take a look at the files.

Jake: Well, that's unexpected, but... All right, fine, I'll...

[Laughs]

#2: It's not a file, bro. It's a doughnut, because you're cops.

Jake: You sure?

[Laughs]

Jake: All right, I don't care if it's not our jurisdiction, we're solving this.

Scully: Would you like me to, uh, file that for you, Jake?

Jake: Just ask for the doughnut, Scully?

Scully: Can I have the doughnut, please?

Jake:'Yes.

Scully; Thanks.

Jake: [Sighs]

Jakes desk

Jake: It's good to see you, Sal. I'm so sorry about the fire.

Sal: I can't believe it's gone, Jakey, all of it. The pizza oven. The first dollar bill I ever made. [Tearing up] The 7-up fridge.

Jake: Hey, it's gonna be all right. You'll rebuild.

Sal: The fire department's been asking a lot of questions.

Jake: Oh, fire department questions. Let me guess. "Uh, what part of my face do I put food in?" "How do you count to one?" "What's air?" [Laughs]

Sal: They think I torched my own place. You know I wouldn't do something like that, right?

Jake: Yeah, of course. But can you think of anybody who might've done it?

Sal:'I could think of ten pizzerias that want me out of the game. That jerk Mario comes to mind. We share a delivery radius.

Charles: Mario is number ten overall in Brooklyn, and rising fast. He might've wanted to move up the ladder.

Jake: Of one foodie weirdo's personal pizza email blast?

Charles: Yeah.

Jake: Okay, we'll start with him, then we'll move on to the rest of your competition, see if anything suspicious turns up.

Charles: It'll be the perfect opportunity to update my rankings. Can we stop at home for a pizza bib?

Jake: No, Charles, we gotta go fast. Right, right,

Charles: I'll just use my work bib.

Jake: No, no bib.

Jake:'We're gonna solve this for you, Sal. Sit tight.

Evidence room

Rosa: The guy who did the safe in the second apartment, what was his name?

Amy: Cone. "C" as in "Captain." "O" as in "overlooked."

Rosa: What?

Amy: Nothing.

Scully; She said "C" as in "Captain," "O" as in "over..."

Rosa: Yeah, I know how to spell cone.

Scully: Okay.

Amy: So, Ropesburg P.D. You know someone there?

Rosa: Nope.

Amy: So you were looking for a new job?

Rosa:Nope.

Amy: Weird. They just offered you Captain without considering anyone else? Like Scully... Because he's got so many years on the force.

Scully panicked: Hey, guys, I think I put my gun in one of these boxes, and I don't know which.

Rosa: You have a problem with me that you want to talk about?

Amy: Me? No, I am just filing evidence, sir.

Scully: Found my gun. It was in my holster. My holster's on my butt.

Amy: Good solve, Scully.

Mario's pizzeria

Charles: Mario, this pie needs work. Good consistency on the crust, but the cheese-to-sauce ratio is a travesty. [Spits]

Jake: Do you have to spit?

Charles: In a word, yes. Amateurs go tasting, they fill up, and they lose their palate by the third slice. I take this very seriously.

Jake: So, Mario... Let me tell you what I think happened. Your credit card transactions are down by 1/3 in the last six months. Meanwhile, over at Sal's, it was a bunch of smiling faces and happy stomachs. One night, you snapped. A little gasoline... fah! A little match. And poof! No more Sal's. How right am I?

Mario: The night of the fire, I was at my father's funeral.

Jake: Oh... My condolences.

Charles: [Spits] Ugh.

Gino's pizza

Charles: Gino... This pizza is much better than last time. You've always ranked dead last in structural integrity and sauce.

Jake: But way more importantly, I did a little research, and it turns out you did six months in prison for a b&e.

Gino: I did. The night of the fire, I was at the prison giving a motivational speech on how parolees can turn their lives around.

Jake: Well, it's good to hear that the system works, and you are welcome. Have a good one. This is a dead end. We've gotta check out that crime scene.

Charles: Can't. Firemen locked it down.

JakeS Grab your spit bucket, Boyle. Those hose monkeys can't stop us.

Interrogation room

Gina walks in with a male

Terry: Ah, you must be Simon Walker. Have a seat. It says here you were an I.T. Specialist with the board of ed for two years.

Simon: Well, I know my way around a computer, that's for sure.

Gina: Query: What's your favorite Jay-Z song?

Simon: I'm sorry? Favorite Jay-Z song?

Terey: [Chuckles] She's kidding.

Gina: Hmm. No, I'm not. What is it?

Simon: I don't know.

Terry: I'm sorry about her. Okay. What's your experience with cyber-security?

Simon: Uh, well, I added encryption software...

Gina: But seriously, what's your favorite Jay-Z song?

Simon: I don't know! Big pimpin'? It's big pimpin'!

Gina: Mm, wrong answer, friend.

Another guy: And that's, um, how I got involved in, you know, systems analysis. I'm sorry. I'm really nervous.

Terry:There's no need to be nervous.

Gina: Yeah, we're all just calm, cool, collected... Wahh!

Guy: [Screams]

Gina: [Laughs] Oops. Was that a little sudden?

Another interview

Terry: What would you say is your biggest weakness as an employee?

Lady: Um... I'm sorry, what was the question again?

Gina flossing her teeth says:He said, "what's your biggest weakness [muffled] As an employee?"

Lady: That's just gross.

Gina: I'm sorry, I just have a skootch of gingivitis. So I'm trying to treat that as best I can. Sorry. You seem disgusted.

Rosa approaches Amy's desk

Rosa: Here's an itemized list of everything taken from the garden apartment.

Amy: TV, computer... "Ster-b-eo"? Uh-oh, spelling error. That's not very Captain-y.

Rosa: Oh, my God, enough.

Amy: I just think that you meant "stereo," not "ster-b-eo." Did you mean "ster-b-eo," Captain?

Rosa: That's it. Get in my car, now. And if you say another word, I promise you, you will regret it.

Amy: Aye aye, cap...

Rosa grabs her ear walking with her

Amy: Ow, okay. Fine, I regret it. Ah... I'll go. I'm going.

Jake & Charles staking out Sals

Jake: These firemen are not moving. We gotta distract 'em. Tell 'em your little boy's cat got stuck up in a tree.

Charles: Ooh, undercover work. I love it. I need more back story. First off, can it be my daughter's cat?

Jake: Okay, but if you get made because of that, it's on you.

Charles: Fine. Let's talk about the cat. Short-hair, long-hair? Tabby?

Jake: Short-hair, calico. The son is adopted. Your wife is in a coma.

Charles: Oh, that's brutal.

They both get out of the car

Charles walk up to the firemen

Charles: I like it. Hey, guys? Guys, I really need your help. My little boy, Brian, my angel, I bought him a short-haired calico after my wife fell into a coma... Motorcycle crash. And now the cat's stuck in a tree.

Jake pulls out a knife to break into the place

Charles: He's a cute kid. Kinda looks like you. Handsome guy. Handsome little guy.

Jake tells a stranger walking by; Oh, hey. Just got locked out, so... He doesn't care. [Grunts]

Charles: Brian was adopted, so he has abandonment issues. Just struck out at tee-ball last week. Everyone called him "cryin' Brian."

Jake has a flashlight looking around inside in the dark

Boone: Hello, Peralta.

Jake: Aah!

Jake throws the flashlight as Boone turns on the lights.

Boone: You looking for something? What is the deal with you and this second-rate pizza joint?

Jake: This place is a Brooklyn institution, and I'm here because you think Sal did it and you're wrong!

Boone: He did do it! Sal was in financial trouble, he has no alibi, and in cases of arson, the owner always did it.

Firemen: What's going on, sir? What's going on is that Peralta has screwed with me for the last time, and now he's gonna pay.

Jake: Oh, you know what, Boone? Any time you want to...

Bonus punches Jake who Grunts]

Jake: Well, that escalated fast. [Grunting]

Charles gets thrown on the floor

Charles: They're getting nervous, Jake! They're getting nervous!

Outside

[Both grunting and wrestling ]

Charles: Get off him, Boone! You big marshmallow!

Cop: Hey, break it up! Now!

Fireman: Hey, hey, hey! Don't tell my guys what to do!

Cop: Don't tell me what to tell people what to do!

Fireman: Well, make me not do it, tough guy.

Jake: Uh-oh.

[All grunting and fighting]

Jake: Hey, break it up!

Fire station

Holt: I apologize, marshal Boone, for Detective Peralta's actions, something I find myself doing quite frequently.

Jake: In my defense, I was the only one saying we should stop hitting.

Flashback

Jake: Stop hitting them! Kicking them will hurt more!

End of flashback

Boone: Okay, I'm a reasonable man, so I'm just gonna say this. Fire Peralta immediately. He started a fight. He overstepped his jurisdiction. And he's obsessed with this pizza place.

Jake: What I'm obsessed with is how you're bungling this investigation. They should write a song about it called welcome to the bungle.

Jake and charles high five

Jake: Seriously, why are you dragging Sal's pizza through the mud? That place is special.

Holt: Why's it special?

Jake: Because it's the best pizza in the neighborhood!

Charles: Well...

Holt; According to Charles's email blast, it's actually number eight.

Charles: Captain reads my blast.

Holt: Of course, it's the only one that measures mouth-feel.

Jake: What, are you kidding right now?

Holt: This isn't about pizza. What's it actually about?

Jake: When I was a kid, I was shortstop on my little league team.

Boone: Oh, my God.

Jake: It's the truth. It's not a brag. My dad was the coach, and after every game, he would take the team to Sal's. Halfway through our last season, he left me and my mom, and the worst part about it was that I couldn't go with him to Sal's anymore.

Holt: Well, that's certainly not what I expected this to be about.

Boone: [Crying] Sorr... I'm sorry. I'm sorry that happened to you. I mean, what kind of dad just... Just leaves his son like that? Look, you're... You're a cop and... And I'm a firefighter, but underneath all of it, we're just two boys whose dads abandoned them. And you and I, we're gonna solve this thing, together. Okay?

Jake: Okay.

Boone: Okay.

Jake: Yeah.

Boone: But first, let's hug like men.

Boone hugs Jake

Jake: Oh, boy. This is happening. [Boone Crying]

Boone: Captain, get in here.

Holt: There, there. There, there. There.

Charles: I'm coming in.

Jake: [Groans] Oh, Boyle.

Amy and Rosa in the car

Amy: What's going on? Did you drive me out here to kill me?

Rosa: I thought about it, but then I put that thought on hold. I wanted to show you Ropesburg.

Amy: This is Ropesburg?

Rosa: You wanted this offer so badly, I thought I'd give you a chance at the job.

Officer: Miss Diaz! Are you here to reconsider? We've bought the deputies bullets, like you suggested.

Rosa: Hi, sergeant. No, I'm still not interested. At all. But this is Detective Santiago. She's one of our top detectives, and she really wants the job.

Amy: I...[Chuckles] Yes. Can I ask what happened to the last Captain?

Rosa: He quit to start a carpet cleaning business, because that was better than being Captain here because this is the most boring place on earth.

Amy: [Chuckles] She doesn't mean that.

Officer: It's okay. It's true. Gotta be known for something.

Amy [Chuckles nervously]

Captain Holt's office

Holt: So of all the candidates that you interviewed today, who do you think I should hire?

Terey: Well, the interviews got a little off-track. But I'd go with Simon Walker. Computer science degree, worked for the board of ed for ten years.

Gina: That guy? No way. He yelled at me when I asked him the same question about Jay-Z three times in a row.

Holt: Why does that matter?

Gina: Because whoever takes this I.T. Job is gonna have to deal with Hitchcock asking how to log in to his email every single day forever. How do you think Professor short fuse is gonna handle that?

Terry: Fine, what about this guy?

Gina: Mm, no. He was scared of everything. Do you remember Rosa's reaction last time the printer jammed?

Flashback

Rosa uses a battering ram, She throws money at the printer

Rosa: I'll pay for that.

she walks away

End of flashback

Terry: Fine, what was with the flossing?

Gina: Mm, a precinct is a pretty gross place, ter-bear. There's blood, wounds, Scully's feet. You need a strong stomach, and that lady did not have one. Plus, we already have the perfect candidate already: Savant.

Terry: That punk who hacked us?

Gina: Precisely. Captain, turn your greatest weakness into your greatest strength, like Paris Hilton re: Her s*x tape.

Holt: Get to the point.

Gina: Savant tore our walls down, but he can build them back up, taller and thicker than ever.

Terry: But how can we be sure he won't turn on us?

Gina: His mom ratted him out, so I bet he'd love a steady paycheck to get out of that snitch's house. [Laughs] If I had a mic right now, I'd drop it.

Holt: There we have it.

Fire station

Boone's office

Boone: And here's the file you wanted.

Jake: Well, it's hard to believe I'm gonna say this, because I've spent most of my adult life hating you and everything you stand for, but... Thanks.

Boone: I'm not gonna lie, my therapist is gonna be very proud of me.

Jake: That's weird. Any reason you can think of one of your guys would've forced this cabinet open while they were putting the fire out?

Boone: No, no. I can't. Looks like it was jimmied open with a crowbar.

Jake: Oh, my God. I know who did it. Come on, I'll explain it on the way down.

Boone: Wait, wait, wait. I can't believe I'm offering this to a cop, but... Do you want to take the pole down?

Jake: Oh, my God, yes.

Jake going down the pole: Whee! Let justice be served. Did you get it?

Charles: Uh-huh. My turn?

Jake: Nope. No time.

Charles on the pole: Whoo!

Ginos pizza

Jake: We know you burned down Sal's, gino.

Boone: You hated him because his pizza was better than yours.

Gino: That's not true. Gino's pizza's always been the tastiest.

Jake: Wrong. According to Boyle's email blast, it was downright lousy before. That's what made it so suspicious when he suddenly loved it.

Flashback

Charles is eating the pizza [Distorted]

Charles: Much better than last time. [Spits]

End of Flashback

Charles: The crust was charred, the cheese was stringy and flavorless, but the sauce. Oh, Marone, the sauce. Continue.

Jake: And that was your mistake. You didn't just burn Sal's down, you also stole his secret sauce recipe. Here's a picture of the cabinet in which said recipe was held. Busted open with a crowbar. (Shows him picture of the cabinet) Look familiar? Also, your so-called motivational speech down at the prison ended at 5:00 P.M., leaving you plenty of time to get back to Sal's and burn it to the ground. So I guess there's only one thing left to say.

Both: Gino Bianucci, you're under arrest... [Clears throat]

Jake: Excuse me.

Boone: No. Do you mind? This is my collar... I think I can handle this. If I'm not wrong.

Jake: Yeah, but I actually did all the work.

Boone: See, I knew you would... You know what? Fine. Go ahead, I don't care. Gino Bianucci, you're under arrest for arson. Yes! Said it first.

Jake: Real mature. Very mature. Off we go.

Amy and Rosa in the car

Rosa: So what'd you think of Ropesburg?

Amy: It's, uh... quaint.

Rosa: It's whack, and you know it. Their number-one crime is tricycle theft. There's a bakery attached to the precinct. Come on, Santiago. You never would've taken that job, so why'd you even care that they offered it to me?

Amy: I can't help it. I'm competitive. I have seven brothers, and I was the only girl. I always had to fight for a place at the table.

Rosa: Well, you're not the only girl at the table anymore. We work in a police force full of dudes. We gotta have each other's backs, okay?

Amy: You saying you have my back?

Rosa: Yeah, I got your back. Don't smile. I'm still mad at you.

Amy: I thought we were having a moment.

Rosa: Moment's over. Shut up.

Precinct

Hitchcock: Hey, sarge. He made my computer smarter. All I have to do is put my thumb on that thing, and it opens up all my electric mails.

Corey: [Laughs] You seem real smart, man. Oh, and look, and you play with toys.

Terry: Savant, you're part of the nine-nine now. We look after each other. Hey, ball, if savant was to do anything to harm this precinct, would I destroy him? (Terry crushes the 8 ball with his hand, Charles eyes are widen) Answer uncertain. Try again.

Holt: Peralta, fire marshal Boone just called. He told me you should check your drawer?

Jake opens his drawer, it's filled with white foam

Jake: Oh, look at that. I've been booned. Well, the joke's on him, because I was out of shaving cream.

Holt: I see we are once again at war with the fire department. You are not to retaliate.

Jake: Oh, I wouldn't dream of it, sir. In fact, I'm gonna send over a little peace offering: Some of Sal's famous sauce.

Fire station

Jake: Now, Boyle! [Alarm blares]

Charles: Fire! Fire! Fire!

Boone slides down the pile and into a pool of sals sauce

Jake: Pleasure working with you, Boone. Run, Charles! [Laughter]

Boone tries getting them but he slips in the pool

Jake: Come on... whoa!

Firmen: Get that guy!

Charles: Happy Turkey Day.

Jake: Yes! Right out of the gate.

Charles: What? What's going on?

Jake: We're playing Boyle Bingo, Thanksgiving edition. (Holds paper up)

Amy: Everyone filled out their cards with possible Charles-related scenarios. First to bingo gets 100 bucks.

Jake: I had "Boyle calls it 'Turkey Day'" on the center square.

Charles takes Terry's paper: "Boyle explains that they ate lobsters at the first Thanksgiving." They did. Back in that time, they called lobsters "ocean bugs." And... I'll just mark it off for you.

Jake: I think got the winning card here. Boyle tells us that he played Pocahontas in his third grade play.

Charles: All the girls were too big.

Gina: This is a fun one... "Boyle says, 'Gobble, gobble, gobble.'"

Charles: Well, now that I know you want me to say that, I'll just say it with two gobbles. Gobble, gobble... Gobble. God, it just sounds right that way. Ugh. I don't like this game.

Rosa: Ha! "Boyle objects to Boyle Bingo."

Charles: Come on, guys.

Terry: Boyle says, "Come on, guys." That's two for Terry.

Charles: Well, guess what. I can spoil your little game by sitting over here quietly all day and doing nothing. (Takes a seat and falls on floor) Oh! Aah!

Jake: Anybody have "Boyle falls on the floor?" No one?

Charles: That's a victory. That's a victory for Boyle. Boom!

All: Boyle says, "Boom!"

B99 intro

[Upbeat music] ♪ Season 1, Episode 10 "Thanksgiving"

Inside Precinct

Jake walks into the bullpen

Jake: Check it out, chair jockeys. While you were busy tickling the ivories on your computers, I was doing a bust. Cocaine! Thanks, Lucius. (He hands off the evidence to an officer) He ran, I pursued. Whole thing turned into an awesome car chase.

[Tense music]

Streets of Brooklyn

Jake chases the perp

Aah.

Jake : NYPD!

[Perp Grunts falling and gets into a car trying to drive off ] [Tires screeching]

Perp: Come on. Move, move, move.

Jake looks into the car window: Hey there, criminal. It's me, Johnny Law.

Inside Precent

Amy sitting in her desk: Well, at least you're done early, so you have time to go home and change for my Thanksgiving dinner.

Jake: Ugh. Why do we have to dress up for Thanksgiving. I don't even celebrate that stuff. The whole holiday is based on overeating. We should be wearing velvet track suits and diapers.

Amy: Jacket and tie. Rosa's even wearing her formal leather jacket.

Rosa: It's the one without any blood on it.

Amy: You're gonna dress up, and you're gonna give a toast about what you're thankful for. Start preparing. Oh,

Jake: I prefer not to prepare for my toasts. I just wing 'em like scat jazz. [Imitates jazz]

Scully: Are we singing?

Jake: No, no, no, no.

Scully: [Singing opera]

Jake: OK... That's nice. You don't have to...

Scully: [Singing opera]

Jake: [Whispering] I'm not dressing up for your party. (Walks away)

[Singing opera]

99 KITCHEN

Terry is standing by the fridge with the door open as Charles walks in

Terry: Damn it, Boyle. You left the fridge open. The door couldn't shut because of your empty pizza box.(Takes out the pizza box)

Charles: Pizza? Please. This is a butternut squash and truffle butter flatbread.

Terry: Everything's spoiled. My lunch is ruined. My chicken, my potatoes, my pasta, my meatballs, ham, my yogurt. (Takes out every meal)

Charles: Wow, that's a lot of yogurt.

Terry:  I love yogurt.

Charles: So this is your lunch for, like, the month?

Terry: I need to eat 10,000 calories a day to maintain muscle mass. My wife made me all of this before she left town with the kids. That was everything in my fridge. (Closes fridge door)

Terry: Scully.

Scully: Hey-a, Sarge. I know you got a secret stash of food hidden somewhere.

Scully: Oh, no.

Terry: Where is it?

Scully: No, I don't.

Terry: Is it in your pockets?

Scully: Oh, come on.

Terry: I'm gonna shake it out of your pockets. Turn around.

Scully: Sarge. [Grunts] Sarge!

Hitchcock; Go limp, Scully.

Scully: [Grunts]

Scully: This is fun.

(Terry shakes Scully and Charles records them)

Terry: Release your sweets.

Santiago walks by the Captains door trying to work up the courage

Captain Holt: Can I help you, Santiago?

Amy: Oh, Captain, didn't expect to see you there.

Captain Holt: In my office?

Amy: So, I just wanted to make sure that you knew about the Thanksgiving dinner I'm hosting for the squad after work.

Captain Holt: Yes, I received your "Save the date" decorative gourd, your ornamental cornucopia, and this beautiful handcrafted card of a turkey wearing a top hat.

Amy; It's a pilgrim's hat.

Captain Holt: Where's the buckle, Santiago?

Amy: The buckle.

Captain Holt: My husband's out of town for work, so of course I will attend your dinner.

Amy: Cool. Whatever. Yeah, don't worry about it, either way. It's not a big deal. [Whispers doing her victory dance] Yes!

Rosa sitting at her desk: Why so excited?

Gina: Did you make the cover of "Hair Pulled Back" magazine?

Amy: The captain is coming to my party. I'm gonna give a toast, tell him how thankful I am to have him in the precinct, and officially ask him to be my mentor.

Gina: Wait, are you only hosting dinner because you wanna suck up to Holt? Not cool. This was supposed to be about friendship.

Amy; You said you were only coming to see if my apartment was the reason I was single, or if it was my personality, like you suspected.

Gina: Yeah, but that was before I knew I could get up on this high horse. Love the view up here. Clip clop, clip clop, clip clop. (Walks away)

Break room

Holts on the phone as Jake walks in

Captain Holt: Same to you,

Jake: Your Honor. Oh, what judge were you talking to?

Captain Holt: That was my mother.

Jake: You call your mom "Your Honor"?

Captain Holt: She's a federal judge in the Ninth Circuit. What else would I call her?

Jake: Yeah, okay. Captain, paperwork is all done on that drug bust. What else you got for me?

Captain Holt: Nothing. All open cases are assigned.

Jake: Come on, there's gotta be something I can investigate.

Captain Holt: No, there's nothing.

Jake: All right, well, when there's nothing, there's nothing, you know? What can you... (drops files) Whoa! Who did that? Don't worry, sir. I will stay here all night figuring this out.

Captain Holt: I know what you're up to here, Peralta.

Jake: Damn straight. I'm trying to catch the mad paper scatterer.

Captain Holt: You want an excuse to skip Santiago's Thanksgiving dinner, because for some reason, you refuse to celebrate this holiday like a normal person.

Jake: Fine. You're right. I wanna do what I do every year - Sit at home, watch football, and eat mayo nut spoonsies. Those are spoonfuls of mayo, sprinkled with peanuts.

Captain Holt: That's revolting. Maybe so, but it's what I invented when I was six because my mom was working, so I had to make dinner for myself. My sad story trumps your insult. Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake!

(Charles walks by)

Both: Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake!

Jake:'Thank you, Boyle.

Captain Holt: If a case opens up, it's yours. But if not, you will be at Santiago's as a professional courtesy. Dismissed. (Walks away)

Jake: From what? I thought we were just chatting. We never chat anymore.

Amy's apartment

Everyone is here

Gina: Oh, my God, Amy, that's so cool that you still live with your grandmother.

Amy; I live alone. This is my stuff. I like quilts.

Gina: Stop. Each sentence is getting sadder.

Rosa: It looks like you live on the set of Murder, She Wrote.

Jake; Well, I gotta say, it's not as bad as I thought it would be. I mean, the football game's not on, so I can still watch it later at home. And it's kind of cool to visit a time before electricity was invented.

Amy: I have to practice my toast.

Jake: God, how long is that?

Amy: Eight pages.

Jake: Single-spaced?

Amy: Double-sided.

Jake: Santiago style.

Amy: Mm-hmm.

Terry: Hey, excuse me. Can we please eat? My body is starting to digest itself. Terry needs nutrients.

Amy: No eating until the captain gets here. Okay? Sorry.

Rosa: Don't apologize. I'd rather spend Thanksgiving at your house than with my sister.

Rosa's sister house

Rosa is sitting on the couch with her sister and nieces

Niece: "Things you find a the beach." For "S", I had seagull.

Rosa's sister: Good one, Diana! Ice cream break.

Niece: Yay!

Rosa: Yay.

Amy's apartment

Rosa: It's so pleasant and boring. But, Holt, at your house, surrounded by these idiots? Guaranteed train wreck. Thanks for the invite. (Smiles)

[Doorbell chimes]

Amy: He's here! Okay, he's here, everybody. Be cool. Hitchcock, why do you have your shirt off?

Hitchcock: Can't spill food on your shirt if you're not wearing one.

Amy: What... (walks to the door and opens it) Captain Holt.

Captain Holt: Happy Thanksgiving. Your apartment was very easy to locate.

Amy: Thank you so much. You look beautiful.

Jake appears into Captain Holt's frame: Weirdest conversation ever. Nice work, you two.

DINNER TABLE

Amy standing up: Before we eat, I'd like everyone to go around and say what they're thankful for this year.

Jake: [Sighs] Fine, I'll go first. I am thankful that Thanksgiving only comes once a year. People stuff themselves, and then at midnight they run to appliance stores and trample each other to death. It's a garbage holiday. [Sniffles] I'm sorry, I just get emotional when I talk about how bogus Thanksgiving is.

Amy: I'll just go. I actually prepared a little something.

Jake: You did?

Amy holds her eight pages: When I was a little girl, playing cops and robbers...

Captain Holt: [cell phone ringing] Excuse me. Please. Continue, Santiago.

Amy; Or I could wait.

Terry: No waiting, just toasting. I want you to toast. Now I wanna eat toast. Give me some toast!

Holt: OK, I'll be right there. (Ends call)

Holt: I have to head back to the precinct. No. Why? Someone stole $10,000 from the evidence lockup.

Jake: Yes! Oh, awesome.

Holt: Why is that awesome? It's a case. You said I could hop on any case that came up. It's a Thanksgiving miracle. Have fun, you guys. Let's roll! (Peralta and Holt leave)

Precinct  

Holts office

Holt: You'd think that one place money would be safe is a police station.

Jake: I hear that. Remember when Santiago called you beautiful?

Holt; Yes, that was odd. We need to get this money back, the exact bills, so the commissioner's office won't make our lives hell. What is this? (They see Terry dancing on the Surveillance feed )

Jake: Uh, this is Terry dancing. People do the weirdest stuff in the evidence lockup when they think no one's watching. Fast forward, fast forward, fast forward. Wait, wait, wait. Stop, stop, stop.

Jake: Okay, so here's our money. Fast forward.

Jake: Hold it, hold it, go back. There's our guy. Got him. (They see the video of the guy taking the money) Okay, we should start by checking all the perps that were released from holding today.

Holt: Good idea.

Jake: And if's none of them, we may miss Santiago's altogether. Thanksgiving is dead! (Claps)

Amy's apartment

Terey: Santiago, can we please, please just eat?

Amy: What if captain Holt and Jake are coming back?

Charles: Hang on. I have a toast. (Stands up) I am thankful to have someone in my life who gives me a reason to get out of bed every morning. And I hope that my relationship with this person will only grow more intimate.

Gina: Who are you talking about?

Charles: Um, Hitchcock.

Terry: OK, enough is enough. I'm eatin'. [Grunts] What's in these?

Amy: Potatoes, butter, a little milk. Oh, and I ran out of salt, so I used baking soda.

Terry: Why wouldn't you? They're both white powders. Of course they're interchangeable.

Amy: Yeah.

Jake and Holt get into a car

Jake: [Grunts]

Holt: There were two men released from holding today that were the right height and weight to be our thief on the security footage. Even if it is one of them, how will we know?

Jake: Easy. The guy on the footage was left-handed. We just give all of our suspects some made-up form to sign, and see which hand they use. All right, amigo. Punch it. (Puts on shades) (Holt buckles up)

Jake: Good. Did that. (Holt checks review mirrors) Now punch it. Uh-huh. Safety first. Punch it! (Brings down window) Okay, see, now I just feel like you're messing with... (Holt drives off)

Amy's apartment

Amy; Anyone want seconds?

Terry: Can't. I'm so stuffed.

Scully: Amy, the toilet's overflowing.

Amy; What? Ew! Scully, what did you do? (Stands up)

Rosa cheers: And the night gets worse better.

Scully: I didn't do it. Although, I understand why you suspect me.

Amy: Well, then who clogged it?

Montage

Rosa walks in with food and dumps it

Gina walks in with food and dumps it

Charles walks in with food and dumps it

[Flushes]

Amy: So none of you ate anything? Terry, you said you ate the whole turkey.

Terry: Toilet.

Terry walks in with food and dumps it

Terry: I ate one string bean. It tasted like fish vomit. That was it for me.

Amy; But I'm a good cook. You all ate those brownies I brought in last week.

Gina: I thought they were erasers.

Amy: Charles said he loved them.

Charles: I'm a textbook people-pleaser. I have a serious problem. This was great though. You must be so proud.

Amy: Yeah, Thanksgiving's over. Everybody go home. We're just... We're done hanging out together.

Charles: I-I'm not done hanging out. Let's go to the bar, they serve food there. That's a great idea.

Rosa: Oh, look at that. "Boyle saves Thanksgiving."

Charles: Does it really say that?

Rosa: No. But it does say, "Boyle believes obvious lie."

Charles: Damn it.

Night, streets of Brooklyn

Jake: So what's our strategy here? I'm thinking maybe we could do the whole thing in character. (Looks at each other) I'll play detective Bart Barley... Tightly wound, hates violence against animals. And you're my partner, Gerald Jimes... A man who solved every crime, but one... The murder of his wife.

Holt: Peralta, take this seriously.

Jake: I am. As seriously as you're taking the search for the man who killed Jane Jimes. Your only clue? He wore a yellow sweater. Eh? You're considering it. (Jake goes up the steps) Let's get in there.

Jake: NYPD. [Knocks]

Man: What's going on? I'm right in the middle of carving turkey.

Jake: I'm vegetarian. Eating meat is murder. I hate violence against animals.

Hold: Bup, bup, bup, bup. We overlooked our release form we were supposed to have you sign. We apologize.

Jake: Yeah, he's really right-handed. Let's go.

HALLWAY

Jake: ♪ Look out, bad guys ♪ ♪ it's Barley and Jimes ♪ ♪ Barley and Jimes are on the case ♪

Holt: Please refrain from make believe this time.

Jake: Fine.

[ Holt Knocks]

Jake: Evening, ma'am. NYPD. Barley and Jimes. We're looking for Donny Romano.

Lady: Ugh. Come in. Donny, what'd you do? Cops are here.

Donny: Aww. What do you guys want?

Jake: Sorry to bother you, sir, my partner here forgot about a form we need you to sign. What's happening, Donny?

Man: What'd you do?

Donny: I didn't do anything. It's not my fault.

Lady: Same old story. It's never you, is it?

Louie: What did Donny do?

Donny: I swear, ma, I don't know what this is about. Why won't you ever believe me?

Lady: 'Cause I raised a liar. You lie.

Donny: Shut up, ma.

Louie: Hey, don't talk to ma like that.

Donny: Don't you tell me what to do, Louie!

Holt: Excuse me.

Lady: Hey! Not the rolls! George, do something.

Holt: Excuse me, if...

[overlapping arguing] You know, you're gonna get hurt. Get off now. Get off. (Donmy and Louie fight on the couch)

Holt: My wife was murdered by a man in a yellow sweater! It's the one case I can't solve. Don't fight with family. It can all go away so quickly. Sign this? (Donny signs it)

Jake: That's a hell of a breakthrough, Jimes. I'm proud of you. Also, we just caught our man. He signed with his right hand.

Jake: That's right, he did. But he didn't do it. He did.

Louie: What?

Jake: Couldn't help but notice you throwing those rolls with your left hand, boss. Not mention, this hoodie matches our security footage exactly. You stole that money when you came in to pick up your brother from holding today, didn't you?

Louie: Damn it. (Lady smacks his head)

Holt: Nice work, Peralta. So where's the money now?

Louie: It's not here, all right? I bet it all on the football game. My bookie has it.

Jake: Yes! The case continues.

Holt: This is not good.

Jake: Right. Sorry, Jimes. His father was murdered by a bookie. I know you miss him.

NIGHT OUTSIDE,  CASINO

Holt: Our perp says the bookie operates out of a hidden back room. Try to blend in.

JAKE: Good idea. I'll just age myself 60 years, become Chinese and female. Here we go. Whoosh. (With his hands) Did it work?

Older Asian woman: $10 to play.

Holt: Oh, we're just looking around.

Older Asian woman: $40 just to look around.

Jake: All right, we'll play.

Older Asian woman: $15 to play.

Jake: All right.

SHAWS BAR

Boyle: Tommy, can we order some food?

Tommy: The cook's gone. I sent him home.

Terry: Do you have any more of these pretzels?

Tommy: Sure.

(Terry takes the pretzels jar and dumps it on himself)

Tommy: I'm gonna call the cook.

Boyle: Smart. Good call.

[Amy drinking alone at a table ]

Gina: Hey, rough night?

Amy: Yeah, it certainly hasn't gone according to plan.

Gina: Aw, no. Aw, Amy, I was ordering a drink called "A Rough Night." It's tequila with a nicotine patch.

Amy: Right. (Rosa takes a seat) How do I get Holt to pay attention to me? He sure spends a lot of time on Peralta. Maybe I should start screwing up, like Jake does. I can act out too, you know?

Rosa: Please do.

Amy: Okay. Watch this. [Glass shattering] Oops.

Tommy: Out... All of you.

Terry: But the cook is coming back.

Tommy: Out!

Terry aggressively grabs his jacket: Fine! But I'm taking these olives.

Boyle: [Sighs] Sorry. Happy Turkey Day.

CASINO BOOKIE PLACE

Woman: [Speaking Chinese]

JAKE: Ah. I think I'm getting the hang of this. These tiles are either game pieces or candy. (Bites it) Game pieces. Here we go.

[Overlapping chatter]

Jake: I think I just won.

Holt: The guy by the bathroom seems very interested in the commotion you just made.

Jake: Yeah, and he's been waiting for the toilet since we got here. Ten-to-one that's not a bathroom, and he's a lookout.

Holt: Let's go.

Jake: You got it. Ahh, I'm gonna just cash out. (Puts prices on the table and gets up)

[Speaking Chinese]

99 Station, kitchen

Boyle: There is nothing here.

Terry: Don't worry, guys, I found food. (Sets a box down and eat the packing peanuts)

Rosa: Are you eating packing peanuts?

Scully stands up: Okay, I do keep a secret stash of food in the office.

Terry: I knew it! Where? [Screams] Where?

BULLPEN

Terry carrying Charles

Charles: Sarge, am I too heavy?

Terry: No. Where is it?

Scully: There, the one with the water stain.

Terry: There's a lot of food up there?

Scully: Yeah, it's a smorgasbord. [All screaming, Rosa is amused] I think the rats got to it.

Terry: You think?

Rosa smiles: This is the greatest thing that's ever happened.

Amy: Okay, it's over. Thanksgiving time of death: Now.

Charles: No, this will not be our Thanksgiving. All right, you all wait here. Give me an hour. Terry, to the door.

Terry: I'm just gonna put you down, man.

Boyle: Yeah, totally. That makes sense. That makes sense.

CASINO, BOOKIE PLACE

Jake: Hey, there. Bathroom?

Man: There's another one upstairs, over there. (Jake and Holt take him down) Aah. Oh! [Grunts]

Jake opens the doors and sees men gambling and the game playing

Jake whispering: Oh. Never mind. Let's go.

Holt: What, it's really a bathroom?

Jake: No, no, no. There's tons of illegal stuff happening in there. But they're watching the football game and I DVR'd it. I don't wanna see the score.

Holt: What?

Jake: Okay, fine. We'll go get the stolen money.

Jake and Holt come in the door

Jake: NYPD. Freeze. Change the channel and then freeze.

Holt: Put it down! (Moves in closer)

(Jake's attacked by a man)

Holt: Put it down, put it down.

Jake being choked: This is a weird request, but will you switch places with me? I really don't wanna see the score. [Both grunting, Jake fights him off l] Oh, yeah. Thank you. That's so much better. Oh! Why are there so many TVs in here?

Officer takes the criminal off Jake's hands

Jake: Thank you.

Holt: The money was still in the bookie's safe. All the numbers match. Let's head back to Santiago's party.

Jake: Ah, no thanks. I think I'm gonna head home and watch the football game, (looks around the room) which was ruined for me!

Holt: What's your problem with celebrating Thanksgiving?

Jake: It's a sucky holiday. It's always sucked. My mom worked. My dad was gone. And I sat at home, watching football.

Captain Holt: Look, Jake. I came from a very formal family. My parents were not especially affectionate.

Jake: Really? "Your Honor" wasn't a big snuggler?

Holt: But the beauty of being an adult is that you can make a new family with new traditions.

Jake: Well, that's nice, captain, but I don't have a new family yet, so I guess I'm stuck with my awesome old traditions.

Holt: Okay. I'll tell the squad you couldn't make it.

Jake: Thank you. Before you go, can I borrow some money? I'm getting some pretty serious vibes from Wendy over there, and I'd like to take her someplace special. (Wendy waves at Jake)

99 STATION, BULLPEN

Holt arrives, Amy sits at her desk, Rosa on a chair next to her, Terry and Gina sit by Peraltas desk

Holt: Hey. What are y'all doing here?

Rosa: Amy broke everything and got us kicked out of the bar. Then we got attacked by rats. It's the best Thanksgiving ever.

Holt: Fascinating.

Charles arrives with many takeout delivery people: Happy Turkey Day. Right through there, gentlemen. Not a lot of places are open, so this will be a multiethnic, nontraditional Thanksgiving.

Charles: It's a real culinary challenge. Give me 15 minutes, and then we feast.

Terry: Make it five.

Charles: You eat with your eyes, so the plating alone...

Terry: [screams] Five, Boyle!

Charles walks away

99 station outside Holts office

Amy approaches Holt: Captain?

Holt: Hm?

Amy:  I wanna tell you something. I think you're... Like, when I was a little girl...

Holt: ; You think I'm like when you were a little girl?

Amy: Forget it. The moment's passed.

Holt: Is this about your toast? (Holds her age page toast)

Amy: How'd you get that?

Holt: Gina gave it to me. It's very well-written. There are several compelling anecdotes. The fonts suit the tone. Good work. (Shake hands) I do feel, however, the word choice could've been improved in spots. I marked them "Awk" for "Awkward."

Holt walks away and Rosa approaches her

Amy: That was the best thing anyone's ever said to me.

Rosa: "I marked them 'Awk' for 'Awkward'?"

Amy: It's advice. He's mentoring me. Yes!

99 station, Briefing room

It's decorated and the tables were pushed to make a big table , It's Terry, Hitchcock, Rosa, Charles empty seat, Holt at the head of the table, Scully, Gina, Amy and empty seat, whole Charles stands up

Charles: So this is kind of a play on your typical Thanksgiving dinner. For turkey, we have the Peking duck with a veggie samosa stuffing. The potatoes are the empanadas with an Ethiopian lentil stew gravy. And for dessert, some seasonal gelatin cups. Okay, I ran out of money. They're from when Hitchcock got his colonoscopy. Bon appétit. (Takes a seat)

Jake arrives: I'm here, I'm here. [All cheer] Finally something to actually be thankful for.

Rosa: What are you wearing?

Jake: Santiago said to dress up, so...

Amy: Well, you look beautiful. That's my thing now. I'm just owning it. Okay. Before we eat...

Terry: Nope, not doing that again. Move.

Hitchcock: Could you pass the, uh...

Terry: You get that hand near me again, you're gonna lose it.

Jake: Okey-doke, let's eat.

Amy: Hey, thanks for giving a copy of my toast to Holt. That was nice of you.

Gina: Oh, you're welcome. I mean, you don't have to get so freaked out around him. You were just trying to tell him you respect him.

Amy: Okay.

Gina: But, to be honest, I kinda gave it to him as a prank, 'cause I thought it would be super embarrassing for you. But I'm happy it worked out. But I would've been happy if you hated it. But I'm happy you didn't.

Charles: So, you pretty much got the disaster night you were hoping for?

Rosa: Yeah, till you made the best Thanksgiving meal I've ever had and ruined it.

Jake stands up: Excuse me! Uh, so, earlier at Amy's, I didn't give a real toast because... I didn't know what to say. But, since that time, a wise, unsmiling man named Gerald Jimes made me realize what I am thankful for. So, I'd just like to say I'm happy to be here... With my family. My super-weird family, with two black dads and... Two Latina daughters and two white sons and... Gina, and... I don't know what you are... Some strange giant baby? (Scully smiles) To the Nine-Nine!

all: To the Nine-Nine!

Boyle: That was perfect.

Jake: Uh, Boyle cries! I got Boyle Bingo!

all: No...

Jake: Yeah!

JAKE: All right, You take the little one on the right and I’ll take the big one on the left.

NYPD! Santa, stop hitting Santa!

What’s going on here?

LITTLE SANTA: I been on this corner for six years, and suddenly this guy shows up.

BIG SANTA: You don’t own the corner. I got a charity, too.

LITTLE SANTA: “Canine diabetes?” Who cares about fat dogs?!

BIG SANTA: They can’t give themselves shots! They got paws!

JAKE: All right, calm down calm down. Boyle, frisk the skinny one.

CHARLES: I've gone 42 years without a lump of coal I’m not gonna start now.

JAKE: Are you kidding me? All right. Fine. Come here buddy.

*Fight breaks out*

CHARLES: Hit him in his fat, cherry cheeks!

JAKE: Ugh, that felt wrong.

Knife! Skinny Santa's got a knife!

CHARLES: That’s right! Boom! I just kicked Santa in the testicles! ....Merry Christmas!

Episode
Bull Pen:
JAKE: Looking good! Happy Hanukkah!

AMY: You look happy. Let me guess: your egg sandwich fell on the floor and they gave it to you for free?

JAKE: No. Can you do that? Why doesn’t everyone just drop their sandwiches on the floor?

AMY: I was trying to insult you.

JAKE: And instead you gave me an amazing life hack!

Oh, Amy, you shouldn't have but this is embarrassing. I didn’t get you a present.

AMY: The gift is for Captain Holt. It’s one of six gifts I got him, representing the six lessons he’s taught me: determination, wisdom, posture--


HOLT: Excuse me, everyone. As you may know, this holiday season. Detectives sometimes feel the urge to buy their captains holiday presents. Please refrain from doing that. Under no circumstances do I want a present.

Peralta, my office.

JAKE: Roger that.

AMY: Oh god. I have to return so many items.

JAKE: I know.

Holt's Office
HOLT: Thank you for joining us, Peralta. This is Deputy Chief Gerber.

JAKE: Merry Christmas, Chief. And a very merry Christmas to you, Captain. Ho-ho-ho!

GERBER: Captain Holt has received a number of death threats.

JAKE: Oh! I really came in here with the wrong energy.

HOLT: Captains receive meaningless threats all the time. It’s not a big deal.

JAKE: Of course, no, totally. Why would a death threat be a big deal? Oh right, because it threatens death.

HOLT: It’s a hoax. I don’t want to alarm the squad, so please keep this between us.

JAKE: Awesome. I love secrets!

Santiago got you like six presents.

GERBER: Protocol dictates Captain Holt must have a security detail with him at all times. He has chosen you for that detail.

JAKE: Interesting. And not at all surprising. I’m his favorite. Now what exactly does that job entail?

GERBER: You’ll be assigned to Captain Holt. You’ll be entirely in control of his movements. He will not leave your sight. You have the authority to make decisions you feel are in the best interests of his safety. Basically, you will be completely in charge.

JAKE: Well. I would gladly put my life at risk for this man...to have to follow all my orders. Thank you. This is the greatest Christmas ever. God bless us, everyone!

Break Room
CHARLES: Hey, my flight is at eight tonight. It’s domestic. Do you think I’ll be safe if I get to the airport five hours early?

GINA: I would give yourself at least seven.

Charles nods: You’re right.

GINA: Why are you going on a singles cruise anyway? I thought you were into Rosa.

CHARLES: Well, I am. But I’ve begun to feel like there is a small chance Rosa may not love me back.

Three Weeks Ago
CHARLES: Hey, you wanna grab some dinner tonight?

ROSA: That’s nice. And I like you as a person. But I’m just not interested in you romantically.

CHARLES: Coolio. He heads off.

Two Weeks Ago
CHARLES: Whattaya say we grab a drink?

ROSA: Again- that’s sweet. But I’m not into you that way, and I have a boyfriend.

CHARLES: Gotcha! Raincheck.

Five Days Ago
CHARLES: A rose for Rosa.

ROSA: Listen to me: the healthy thing for you to do is move on.


CHARLES: So we’ve both decided that the healthy thing for me to do is move on.

GINA: I’m impressed, Boyle. That’s very mature.

CHARLES: Thanks. You know, I kind of just realized--

GINA: Oh I’m sorry, that wasn’t an invitation to keep talking.

CHARLES: Gotcha. Raincheck on that convo.

Briefing Room
AMY: Peralta’s busy, so let’s just get started. Now, the captain won’t allow us to give him all the presents we bought him--

ROSA: You’re the only one who did that.

AMY: --but, we can make him the greatest Christmas card of all time! We’re going to wear Santa hats and big sweaters and take a picture of all of us in a line-up.

TERRY: Sorry, Santiago, I don’t have time for that. My psych evaluation is today. They’re gonna decide if I’m ready to go back on the streets.

GINA: Why do you care what they think? Psychologists are just people who weren’t smart enough to be psychics.

AMY: Don’t worry, Sergeant -- we’ll add you in later.

CHARLES: Uh, I have to go, too. My flight’s in... Oh boy. Eight hours. I can make it, I’ll just buy a sandwich on the plane.

ROSA: So, if Boyle, Peralta, and the sergeant are out--

AMY: Gah, fine, everyone just go.

GINA: I could take a picture of myself dressed as an elf. Elfie-selfie!

AMY: Not that but there is something else you could do.

Holt's Office
HOLT: Are you going to sit there all day?

JAKE: Affirmative, Stone Eagle. That’s the Secret Service codename I gave you. I’m just doing my job: watching, protecting, bossing you around. Now, for your safety, please open your internet browser and search for the words “pig” plus “jet skis.” That’s an order.

Whoa whoa whoa -- where are you going, Cold Mountain? I changed your codename.

HOLT: To use the restroom.

JAKE: I’m only asking this for your safety: is it a number one or number two? Your silence indicates number two.

Coast is clear, sir. Go go go!

(into his wrist) Cold Mountain is on the move. Cold Mountain is rolling to the can.

Psychiatrist's Office
HILLARY: Okay, Sergeant Jeffords, thank you for coming in. We’re here to assess your readiness for active duty.

If all goes well, I’ll stamp the release form and you can go back in the field.

TERRY: I think I’m ready. I’m no longer fixating on my fears.

HILLARY: Good, good. But today, let’s fixate on those fears.

TERRY: Okay. That sounds... fun.

HILLARY: Let’s begin by talking about your baby girls, and your wife, and what would happen to all of them if you died in the line of duty?

TERRY: ...I popped your pillow.

Outside the Precinct
JAKE: Well well well. We meet again. Where exactly do you think you’re going?

HOLT: Your constant hovering is going to draw attention to the situation. The last thing I want is for the rest of the precinct to get involved. I’m going home to work in peace.

JAKE: Negative, Ice Veins -- I changed your code name again -- you’re not going anywhere.

HOLT: Do you know why I picked you to be my security escort?

JAKE: Because I am a 21st century Sherlock Holmes. Boyle is my Watson, and Santiago is my Moriarty. I will defeat her.

HOLT: I chose you because the threat is not real, and I thought you’d have no problem breaking the rules and letting me do my work. Now, let me go.

JAKE: Okay. But your house is off-limits --protocol. If you really want to get out of here, we can go to my mom’s place.

Or, I can lock in you the holding cell with an armed escort. Totally your call.

HOLT: Fine. We will go to your mother's place. I guess I am curious to see where this all started.

JAKE: You’ll love it.

At the Apartment
JAKE: Soooo, this is my mom’s house. Just throw your coat in the closet.

HOLT: That’s a bathroom.

JAKE: ...Water closet. My mom is British.

HOLT: Why are there no pictures of you? And no

holiday decorations? And nothing but motel art... This isn’t your mom’s apartment.

JAKE: It’s a safe house, son! You been protected!

HOLT: Get out of my way. I’m leaving.

JAKE: You refused to stay at your desk, you evaded your protection detail. Sorry: I’m ordering you to stay. God, I love giving you orders!

HOLT: If you want me to stay, you’re going to have to physically stop me. Can you do that, Peralta? Didn’t think so

JAKE: Oh no! We’re handcuffed together and we’ve lost the key!

Falconer One to HQ: Stone Eagle is in the cage. Repeat: Stone Eagle is in the cage.


HOLT: I told you the death threat was not serious. So: what. On Earth. Are you doing?

JAKE: I know you think I’m just goofing around, but I was ordered to protect you -- by your boss. From here on out, we are in lockdown.

HOLT: Fine. But before we go into lockdown --

JAKE: Too late, you’re in it.

HOLT: I’d like to text my husband and tell him I’ll be coming home late.

JAKE: Fine. But for security reasons, I get to craft the message. Let’s start with a nice greeting, like

“Hello, honey.”

HOLT: You’re not crafting the message.

JAKE: Copy that -- “honey” isn’t right.

“Hello, husband?” “Hello, sir?” You call each other ‘sir’?

HOLT: Give me my phone.

JAKE: Fine. I’ll give you some privacy.

Gina's Desk
AMY: Maybe, put Hitchcock’s head on top of the tree like an angel? Nah. Put it behind the tree.

Thanks for helping me make this card. You’re so good at this stuff.

GINA: I know. I’m good at everything. Here’s every picture we have of Rosa. Which face should we use?

AMY: Uh, she never smiles. Is her mouth broken?

GINA: How about we...flip those lips!

AMY: Oh god.

GINA: Yikes. That’s horrifying.

Jake: He's here. Boyle is here.

Gina: This is so fun! I wish you guys got shot more often.

Charles: Buh-buh-buh-back in the Nine-Nine.

[Cheers and applause]

Holt: Welcome back, Detective.

Charles: Wow, is this all for me?

Jake: Of course it is. What're you wearing, there, buddy?

Charles: Oh, none of my pants fit over my butt cast. Lucky for me my mom lent me her leg warmers.

Jake: That is lucky.

Amy: Pretty sweet scooter.

Charles: Yeah, I know. Check out these doughnuts. Whoo-hoo!

[Knocks some papers off a desk]

Jake: Oh, that went terribly. Can I help you with something?

Charles: Nope, nope. Everything's under control. I picked up a couple reacher grabbers.

Jake: Yeah.

[Jerks away from Charles]

Charles: So I'm able to do everything that I used to do. So now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go make myself a morning cup of coffee like I do every day.

[Charles wheels himself over to the kitchen]

Charles: Okay, okay.

Just gotta... No problem. [Drops a mug]

[Mug shatters]

[People ooh]

Charles: Oh... The heart is the hardest part. [He drops another mug]

[People oh]

Rosa: Let me get that for you, Boyle.

Charles: No need. No need at all. That's sweet, Rosa. Here we go. [He drops a third mug and it shatters]

Terry: Ah... Hey, Charles, just take my coffee. It's fresh.

Charles: Okay, I guess. I mean, if you don't mind.

Terry: All right, you got it?

Jake: Ah... [Chuckles]

Charles: No problem.

Gina: Why wouldn't you just use your other hand?

Charles: [Tries to drink coffee and then spills and drops Terrys cup] Ahh! Ahh! Ahh! Hot coffee in my cast! Ah! [Gasps]

[Gina grabs some milk and begins to pour it down his cast]

Charles: Ah... [Sighs] Cold milk.

[Gina continues pouring milk down his cast]

Charles: Cold milk.

Jake: That's coming out the bottom.

Charles: It is coming out the bottom of my cast.

[People groan]

Gina: All right.

♪ Intro sequence ♪

Jake: Hey. What's going on?

Rosa: Just picked him up on a dozen counts of identity theft. [Pans to Doug Judy in the interegation room and back to Jake and Rosa] His name is Doug Judy. You ever seen him before?

Jake: No.

Doug Judy: [Starts singing]

♪ Rosa ♪

♪ Rosa, Rosa ♪

♪ Oh, yeah ♪

♪ Beautiful Rosa ♪

Rosa: I think he's into me.

Jake: What do you do to these perps?

Rosa: Fear is a powerful aphrodisiac. Anyway, he said he wants to speak to "John or Jack Peralta or whatever."

Jake: What does he want with me? And should I change my name to Jack Peralta? That sounds badass. [Dramatic voice] Jack Peralta, crocodile hunter.

Rosa: Yeah. He said he wants a deal. He has some information about some dude who steals Pontiacs.

Jake: Pontiacs? He knows about the Pontiac Bandit. Listen to me, he specifically said he knows a guy who steals Pontiacs?

Rosa: Yeah, I just said that. Chill, man.

[Jake lightly shoves Rosa on her arm}

Jake: Okay. [Rosa shoves him on the arm back] Okay, sorry.

[They both keep shoving each other a couple more times]

Jake: M'kay. [Laughs and lightly shoves her on the arm, again]

Doug: Hey, Diaz. Come here and talk to me.

Jake: This dude is super horny.

Rosa: Yeah.

Charles: Ah. Whoa. [Scooter beeping]

[Beeping continues]

Charles: Backing up, guys.

Gina: Oh, are you? Huh.

Scooter's computer voice: Please get out of my way. I am physically disabled. [Repeats again loudly]

Charles: One of these buttons... [Horn honking] Sorry, sorry.

Holt: Oh, you don't have to apologize for anything, Boyle. You were shot in the line of duty, defending a fellow officer.

Charles: You know, the doctor said that if the b*llet was two millimeters to the left and a foot higher, I might never have walked again.

Holt: Everyone here appreciates your heroism, Boyle. We all want your first day back to be as pleasant and as comfortable as possible. Right, detectives?

Terry: Absolutely. Hey, Boyle. You want to choose where we order lunch from today?

Charles: Really? You're lifting the lifetime ban? I thought my lunch choices were "horrifying adventures in diarrhea."

Amy: Today, Charles, we take that adventure with you.

Charles: All right! I've been craving Sudanese all day. I'll print out some menus.

[Charles rolls over Holts foot]

[Thump]

Holt: [In an even tone] Ouch. You ran over my foot. I am in incredible pain.

Doug Judy: I used to work at a chop shop. It was chill. Decent hours, good benefits. You could work while you were High. Which I never did, 'cause that's irresponsible. Anyway, we did a lot of work for this dude who stole Pontiacs.

Jake: The Pontiac Bandit!

Doug Judy: Okay. We called him Bill, but whatever.

Jake: No, not whatever. The Pontiac bandit is my Nemesis. I've been chasing this guy for eight years. He's stolen hundreds of cars, all of them Pontiacs. He's never left any evidence, and he's never been caught on Cam the guy is a ghost.

Doug Judy: Super ghost.

Jake: He's a super ghost!

Rosa: Before we go any further, we need to know if you're for real. Describe the guy.

Doug Judy: Asian dude. Maybe 5'8", spiky black hair. Rocks in both ears. Always wears a black suit. And speaks with a British accent. Like my girl Dame Judi Dench. I have impeccable taste.

Jake: So would you say he looks sort of like...[Reveals sketch of exactly who Doug Judy was describing] This?

Doug Judy: That's Bill.

Jake: This is a composite sketch from ten interviews I've done. Perfect match.

Rosa: So all you know is what a bunch of other mopes have said over the years. Anything else?

Doug Judy: Yeah. I know how to get in touch with him.

Jake: [Low fives Doug Judy] Doug Judy!

Amy: You wanted to see me, Captain?

Holt: My husband's dog Cheddar had relations with our neighbor dog karate and produced these two smaller dogs he insisted that I find them a good home with someone we trust.

Amy: You can trust me.[Grabs one of the puppies and holds it] Dogs are my whole life. Also work. Doing work and hanging with dogs. That's my lifestyle.[Sneezes]

[Coughs]

Holt: You're allergic to dogs, aren't you?

Amy: Nope. I just need an EpiPen because my happiness is making my throat close up.

Holt: Hand me the small dog, Santiago.

[Amy walks away and continues sneezing]

Jake: So the burner phone that Doug Judy used to contact the Pontiac bandit is at his mom's house. He's agreed to help us catch the bandit if we drop all charges against him.

Holt: How many cars would you say this Pontiac bandit has stolen?

Jake: 230 that I know of. But the real number could be in the millions.

Holt: You're not very good at math. What are the charges against Judy?

Rosa: 12 counts of identity theft, but I've been chasing him for a month.

Jake: [Sarcastically] Oh, a month? [Continues in normal tone] I've been trying to catch the Pontiac bandit for eight years. You know how many months that is?

Rosa: 96.

Jake: [Starts talking over Rosa] 80--40--and 6 years, months.

Holt: Do you need a math tutor? Because the department will provide one for you.

Jake: I can't tell if you're being serious.

Holt: I'm on the fence here. Diaz caught him. It's your call.

Jake: Look, this guy is for real. 1,000 push-ups.

Rosa: 1,000 push-ups, really?

Jake: Yes.

Rosa: Okay. I'm in.

Holt: What's 1,000 push-ups?

Jake: Oh, we were in the academy together, and we hated all the drills, so now when we're on a case and one of us says 1,000 push-ups, it means I'm so sure I'm right that if I'm wrong, I'll do 1,000 push-ups.

Rosa: It's a pact we made. It really just means "trust me." And I do.

Holt: Okay. Make the deal. Yes!

Jake: I've got you now, Pontiac bandit. Whoo! Feels good to finally say that in front of actual people instead of just the mirror.

[Next Scene]

Jake: All right, so we grab the burner, catch the bandit, become police legends.

Doug Judy: My mom's car is here. She's home. Can I take these cuffs off?

Rosa: No way.

Doug Judy: She doesn't know I'm a criminal. She thinks I own an architecture firm with all white employees.

Jake: That's r*cist.

Rosa: Why stop there? Why not tell her you're an astronaut?

Doug Judy: 'Cause space is scary. You saw what it did to Sandy Bullock.

Jake: Yeah, I'm with him on this one. I'll stay on earth, thank you very much.

Doug Judy: Yeah. [Laughs]

Jake: Come on, Rosa. We can play-act with his mom for two minutes to get a lead.

Rosa: Fine. One false move, and I tase you in front of your mom.

Diane Judy: Dougie! Oh, my beautiful boy. [Doug Judy hugs her and kisses her on the cheek]

[Smooches]

Diane Judy: Well, shouldn't you be at work?

Doug Judy: Never too busy to see my mama.

Diane Judy: Oh.

Doug Judy: Mama, this is my girlfriend Rosa. [Doug tries to kiss her and she backs away] And this is my personal assistant. Mangy Carl.

Jake: Aw, it's nice to meet you. You can just call me Carl.

Doug Judy: Mangy Carl used to be a homeless gentleman. I work with a charity that finds jobs for down-on-their-luck white people.

Diane Judy: Oh... [Holds Doug Judys hand]

Jake: He's just a big, old angel. He's been so good to... The whites.

[Doug and Diane laugh]

Diane Judy: Yes, he is.

Doug Judy: Yeah. This guy. [Rubs Jakes head]

Jake: Aw...

[Diane and Doug laughing]

Jake: Hey, speaking of which, we should probably grab that phone, you know, so you can get back to architecturals.

Doug Judy: Yes, it's in the spare bedroom.

Diane Judy: I'll go with you. It's a mess.

Jake: Actually, we can handle it on our own, ma'am. Thank you so much. Why don't you just stay up here and... Chop it up with Rosa?

Diane Judy: Well, that sounds nice. We can get to know each other a little.

Rosa: I love getting to know people. It's my jam.

Charles; [Slurping] Oh, how good is this food?

Amy: I'm eating it.

Gina: They accidentally put a stone in mine.

Charles; Oh, no, no, no, no, that's the hoof! [Gasps] That's the best part of the stew! Oh, man. Think of it as marrow nugget wrapped in a thick toenail.

[Everyone but Charles gags]

Charles: [Slurps] Mmm. Hey, did I tell you guys what the doctor said?

Gina: Mm-hmm. Couple times.

Terry: But we'd love to hear it again.

Charles: He said that if the b*llet was a fraction of an inch to the left and two feet up, it woulda hit my brain.

Terry: Oh... Yeah.

Amy: Yeah

Charles: Yeah. [Slurps]

Gina: Oh... [Looks away]

Jake: [Texting as Doug Judy] "Back in the game. When can we meet?"

Doug Judy: Damn, you're a good assistant. I could get used to this.

Jake: How long till he usually gets back to you?

Doug Judy: Like ten minutes. Chill, mangy.

Jake: I can't chill. I've never been this close before.

Doug Judy: I gotta admit, your enthusiasm makes me want you to catch him.

Jake: Thank you. Are these laserdiscs?

Doug Judy: Yeah, I robbed a tower records back in '92. Kept my faves.

Jake: Doug Judy.

Doug Judy: Ooh.

Jake: Blade runner, tron, oh! Fievel goes west?

Doug Judy: Yes, sir. Love that little mouse. His journey... The story of America.

Jake: I could not agree more.

Doug Judy: Fievel?

Jake: Papa.

Doug Judy: Fievel!

Jake: Papa!

Doug Judy: Fie-vel!

Jake: Pa-PA!

Doug Judy: Fie-vel!

Rosa: You guys having fun?

Jake: Hey.

Rosa: 'Cause I'm not. His mom put this stupid braid in my hair.

Doug Judy: Oh, looks beautiful.

Jake: Yeah, it's kinda cute.

[Rosa cuts off the braid with a knife]

Doug Judy: Please have my children.

[Phone chimes]

Jake: It's him. Parking lot on Flatbush and Vanderbilt in 15 minutes. Let's go.

Doug: Wait, wait, wait. Diaz looks like a dirty criminal. But you look like a cop, man. You can't go over there like that.

Jake: What'd you have in mind?

♪ Don't call it a comeback ♪

♪ I been here for years ♪

♪ Rockin' my peers and puttin' suckas in fear ♪

♪ Makin' the tears rain down like a monsoon ♪

♪ Listen to the bass go boom ♪

♪ expl*si*n overpowerin' ♪

♪ Over the competition I'm towerin' ♪

Jake: I don't look like a cop now.

Rosa: No, you look like a Boyz II Men Easter album.

Doug Judy: Burn.

Jake: That's not a burn, that's cool.

[Door opens]

Terry: Gina, we've been looking all over for you. You can't just disappear and leave a sign on your desk that says, "gone leavin'."

Gina: I'm hiding from Charles. I can't take him anymore. It's safe in here 'cause his scooter can't get up the steps in the hallway.

Amy: Gina, have some compassion. Boyle got hurt doing something brave.

Gina: You didn't have to do physical therapy with him, Amy.

[Flashes to Charles laying on his desk and Gina moving his legs]

Charles: Pedal, pedal, pedal, pedal, pedal, pedal, push. Pedal, pedal, pedal, pedal, pedal, push. All this cycling makes me feel like Lance Armstrong.

Gina: Like you use performance-enhancing dr*gs and have one teste?

Charles: Wouldn't you like to know?

Amy: How long can you possibly hide in here?

Gina: I sent all the Captain's calls here, my phone battery's at 100% charge, and I have ten loose diner mints in my purse. This is my home now.

Jake: I gotta say, the suit is growing on me.

Doug Judy: Looks good.

Jake: Is it triple-breasted somehow?

Doug Judy: There's no such thing.

Jake: What about the girl in Total Recall?

Doug Judy: Mmm. Triple bitties.

Jake: Triple bitties.

Doug Judy: Triple bitties. Yeah.

Jake: [Laughs] Rosa...

Rosa: There's no sign of anyone. You sure about this?

Jake: 1,000 push-ups.

Rosa: Okay. [Car approaches] Heads up.

Doug Judy: Who the hell are you? Where's Bill?

Thug: He hadn't heard from you in a while, so he sent me to make sure everything was cool. Apparently it's not. Who are they?

Doug Judy: They're with me. This is the buyer. Carl Mangerman.

Jake: 'Sup?

Thug: I don't know them, I don't trust them. He meets with you alone or it's off. I'll text the address. [He drives away]

Jake: Come on! I promise you this. They have not heard the last of Carl Mangerman.

Holt: Sergeant, I'd like you to meet Richard and Dan. They are puppies.

Terry: Very cute, sir.

Holt: Maybe your twins would like some little, furry friends.

Terry: I'm sorry, sir, but that's impossible. With the twins learning how to walk, chaos reigns at the Jeffords household. I can't let those innocent pups into that madhouse. Terry won't do you like that.

Holt: I understand. Just know you have disappointed...[Hugs the puppies] All three of us.

Terry: That's cold, sir.

Jake: All right, it's worth the risk. We send him in alone.

Rosa: No, we do not. Something doesn't smell right to me.

Doug Judy: Could be my dad's suit. He died in it.

Jake: He died in it? Oh, man. [Phone chimes] They just sent the location.

Doug Judy: Man, this dude is cautious. If I show up one minute late or I'm not alone, he's done with me. This is your last shot.

Jake: I can't let the Pontiac Bandit get away. Put a wire on him, get a tactical team in as backup. It's the only way. Doug Judy and I know this guy. You have to trust us.

Rosa: Do I? One of you is a criminal, and the other one is dressed like Steve Harvey. It's over. I'm ending this now. Sorry, Jake.

Jake: Seriously?

Rosa: Yeah. 1,000 push-ups.

Jake: Well, I raise you. 2,000 push-ups.

Rosa: What? That's not how this works. I said 1,000 push-ups, you have to back me up. That's the pact, end of story.

Jake: Well, I break the pact.

Rosa: I hope you understand how serious this is to me.

Jake: Come on, Rosa. 'Can't you read between the lines, man?'

Rosa: Don't quote Die Hard.

Jake: Sorry. But we're still sending him in alone.

[Next scene]

Jake: We need evidence, so get him talking. Ask questions about money, cars, specifics.

Doug Judy: I'm getting kind of nervous, man. This dude is for real. You sure you got everything covered?

Jake: Yeah. There's a body on the back door, eyes on the side door, and two guys out on the corner. You're gonna be fine.

Doug Judy: What about choppers? You got choppers? With sn*pers and rockets?

Jake: No one has rocket choppers. Although that does sound amazing.

Charles: So, what'd I miss? Tell me all the jokes. Everything funny that happened.

Amy: Charles, we really need to get back to...

Terry: Hitchcock called himself Scully by accident.

Hitchcock: I did. But it brought me and Scully closer together.

Charles: [Laughs] That's great! What else? Oh... Oh, I laughed too hard. Lost another highlighter. Does anyone have skinny forearms?

Amy: Fine.

Charles: Great.

[Amy reaches down his cast and gags]

Charles: Yeah, it's way down there by my butt. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, that's it.

Amy: Is that it?

Charles: Yup.

Amy: Oh, okay.

Charles: Right there.

[Grabs highlighter and removes her arm from his cast]

Amy: Ah! Got it. Oh, my God. Where's my grandmother's ring?

Charles: Oop. Found it. I'll be right back.

Scooter's computer voice: Please get out of my way. I am physically disabled. [Beeping] Please get out of my way.

Gina: Welcome to the Boyle-free zone. Please turn off all cell phones so as not to attract any unwanted attention. Can I offer you a mint?

Rosa: We got eyes on the bandit. He's a block away.

Jake: You ready?

Doug Judy: You and me, Jakey. We were born ready.

Jake: Go, Judy, go.

[Shutter clicking]

Jake: We meet at last, Pontiac Bandit. For eight years I've tracked you. And today I'm taking you down. Doug Judy, can you hear me? Say something to test the wire.

Doug Judy: Hey, Diaz... After we put the cuffs on this guy, I'll be free for dinner. You like spaghetti? And weed?

Jake: The mic works.

Doug Judy: My man. What's up?

Norman Lee: Pleasure to see you again.

Doug: Let's talk about cars. I got my shop up and running again. I can do anything you want. Blue cars, red cars, big cars, small cars, you know, cars. Cars are really great, aren't they?

Rosa: What is he doing?

Jake: Talking about cars.

Holt: Boyle, where is everyone?

Charles: Hiding from me in the evidence room. They think I don't know, but Gina's been live tweeting the whole thing.

Holt: She live tweets everything. Ruined Downton Abbey for me.

Charles: Maybe it was too soon for me to come back. I would've just stayed at home, but I was getting lonely and bored. One day I looked out the window for four hours. I didn't see anything.

Holt: Huh.

Doug Judy: You know what else is great about cars? The way they look. How they stop, how they start.

Rosa: That's it. I'm calling it.

Jake: No!

Rosa: Move, people, we're going in now. [Entering the meet g*n raised] NYPD down now!

Jake: [G*n also raised entering the meet] On your knees!

Rosa: Hands on your head!

Jake: Gotcha, Pontiac Bandit. Where's Doug Judy?

Norman Lee: He went to the bathroom. I'm just here to give him a haircut. I don't know what's going on.

Jake: A likely story, Pontiac... But actually you do have a lot of hair products.

Rosa: He's gone. He ran.

Jake: Why would he do that? He helped us catch the Pontiac Bandit. That was the deal. Doesn't make any sense unless... Doug Judy is the Pontiac Bandit.

[Siren whoops]

Jake: Put out an APB. Seal off everything for a 20-block radius.

Doug Judy: Yeah, don't bother looking for me. I'm in the wind. [Blowing]

Jake: If you're close enough for me to hear you, you're close enough for me to catch you.

Doug Judy: Nah, I got a relay set up, brother.

Jake: So if you're the Pontiac Bandit, who's this joker?

Doug Judy: Couple of years ago you were getting really close, so I started telling all my associates if they ever get caught, they should describe me as...

Arrested Associate #1: Asian dude, 5'8", spiky hair.

Arrested Associate #2: Wears diamond earrings and has a...

Arrested Associate #3: British accent.

Jake: So then you hired a guy who matched that exact description.

Doug Judy: No, no, no, no, no, no. That's my barber Norman Lee. He gave me the idea.

Norman Lee: You know, if you can't come in, I do house calls. You just text me a location and I could be there in half an hour.

Doug Judy: Good to know. You know, you should actually use him while he's there. He'll give you a dope fade.

Jake: I get dope enough fades from my current barber, thank you. So you dragged us over here, went in there, pretended to talk, and then snuck out the basement. Am I right?

Doug Judy: The basement connected to another basement! Which connected to a garage, which is where my boy picked me up.

Jake: Your boy? Oh, that guy from the meet-up. He works for you. He pretended to be spooked by me and Diaz in the parking lot to make sure that we let you go to the next meeting by yourself.

Doug Judy: Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding! You win a Teddy bear!

Jake: You lied to me, Doug Judy. Gotta be honest, I'm pretty disappointed right now. I mean, was that even really your mom?

Doug Judy: Hell yeah, that's my real mom. I wanted to see her one last time before I disappeared. I told you I was sensitive, Rosa.

Rosa: Yeah, you did. Why don't you come back here and take me out to dinner?

Doug Judy: Ah... [Laughs] I know you're trying to trap me. But crazy thing is I'm tempted! That's how hot I find you. Sorry it had to go down this way, Peralta. Maybe we could've been friends in another world. If I hadn't just fooled you like a little b*tch! [Engine revs]

Doug Judy: [Laughing] B*tch!

Jake: 'Kay.

Terry: Hey, Captain, we thought we'd get more work done in here, because...

Holt: You're all hiding from Boyle.

Hitchcock: Not me, Captain. I was napping.

Holt: That's worse.

Amy: Captain, we all think Boyle's a hero, but it's very difficult to be around him right now.

Terry: I was in the bathroom with him, sir. It was a nightmare.

[Flashes to Terry holding Charles while Charles uses the toilet to pee]

Charles: Hey, Sarge, this cast has a special cr*tch hole. It's like a doggy door for my p*nis. Shake. [Terry shakes Charles]

Holt: That man took a b*llet for this precinct. He's a guy who's always looking for love and friendship. And he needs it now more than ever. But you all turned your backs on him. And you should all be ashamed of yourselves.

Gina: [Giggles] I'm sorry. Those puppies are so cute.

Amy: They do undercut your tone a bit, sir.

Terry: But on the plus side, I think I know what to do with them.

Holt: Detective Boyle. I think you might be able to give these dogs a good home.

Charles: Ah...

Scooter's computer voice: You are off the scooter. If you have fallen, please call a doctor.

[Holt hands Charles the puppies]

Charles: Oh, Captain... I don't know if I should... okay. [Puppies start licking his face] Oh... [Laughs] That tickles. They like me so much! [Gasps]

Amy: [Exhales]

Holt: Are you crying, Santiago?

Amy: I'm so allergic. Can you tell the scooter to call an ambulance? [Gasps]

Jake: Hey. So... I went back to the mom's house. Unsurprisingly a dead end.

Rosa: I got a lot of work to do, Peralta.

Jake: Wait. I want to say something. We've worked together long enough that I know how much you hate apologies. I just want to ask you to join the Doug Judy case. Officially, as partners. I want to catch this guy, and I can't do it without you.

Rosa: No, you can't.

Jake: Now I believe I owe you 1,000 push-ups.

Rosa: I don't care about the push-ups, Jake. I care that you didn't honor our pact. I've always trusted you, and when you did that it made me feel like you don't trust me.

Jake: I know, and I'm sorry. It won't happen again.

Rosa: No, it won't. Now get down on the floor.

Jake: What? You just said you didn't care about the push-ups.

Rosa: I changed my mind.

Jake: Fair enough. A pact's a pact. [Groans] One, two, three...[Some time later] 612...

Rosa: Night, Peralta.

Jake: Night. 613... Hey, Ronald. [Groans] [More time later] 1,000... Is so many push-ups. I'm never gonna make it. What am I at?

Holt: 901.

Jake: Thank you, Captain.

Rosa: You said 2,000, remember?

Jake: Agh! I shoulda trusted you! [Sobbing]

Jake: Charles, this is exciting. Medal of Valor.

Charles: I know.

Jake: For getting sh*t in the butt.

[Flashes to Charles saving Rosa and getting sh*t in the butt]

Charles: Oh, my butt!

[Flash forward to the present]

Charles: For exceptional acts of heroism or voluntary risk of personal safety. But, you know, six of one.

Holt: This is one of the NYPD's highest honors. Today is your day, Detective Boyle.

Gerber: Heroism can't be measured by a piece of metal. But what else can we do to recognize the brave officers that have put their lives on the line? It is my great honor to present the Medal of Valor to Detective Charles Boyle... And Sergeant Peanut Butter. [Horse neighs]

[Riotous cheers and applause]

Jake: Oh, my God. Charles is getting the same medal as a horse.

Holt: At least Boyle was announced first.

Jake: Because the horse outranks him. This is amazing.

Holt: That's enough, Peralta. This is a huge honor, and nothing can take that away from him.

Jake: The horse is pooping on the stage. Sergeant peanut butter is pooping on the stage.

[Sergent Peanut Butter snorts]

♪ Intro Sequence ♪

Amy: Peralta.

Jake: Santiago. The bet ends today. Are you ready?

Amy: I was born ready.

Jake:...To lose? The whole question was, "are you ready to lose?" And you said you were born that way.

Amy: Twist my words all you want.

Jake: Okay.

Amy: I'm winning this bet.

Jake: No.

Hitchcock: What bet? What are you guys talking about?

Terry: Seriously? The bet? They've been keeping score all year. It comes up all the time. What are you doing all day?

Hitchcock: Nothing. Why, you wanna hang out?

Amy: A year ago today, Peralta and I made a bet to prove who's a better Detective. Whoever makes more felony arrests, wins.

[Flashes back to when they made the bet]

Amy: What are the stakes? And don't say money, because I know you're in debt.

Jake: If you really knew anything about me, you would've said "crushing debt," and I'll bet whatever, 'cause there's no way I'm losing.

Rosa: What about your car?

Amy: Oh!

Charles: That thing is a date magnet. I mean, how many girls have you made out with in that car? Six?

Jake: Well, I'm gonna win, so sure. Let's bet the car.

[Crowd oohs]

Amy: Yes.

Charles: No, Jakey, no! That car is your superpower. Thor would never wager his hammer. Neil Patrick Harris would never wager his showmanship. Losing that car will be the worst thing in the world for you.

Gina: Well, what's the worst thing in the world for you, Santiago?

Amy: Being one of those girls in Jake's car.

Terry: Okay, okay, okay. Then it is settled. If Peralta loses, Santiago gets his car. If Santiago loses, she goes for a date in said car.

[They shake hands]

Jake: Game on.

Amy: Game on.

Jake: Wow, your handshake is quite firm.

Amy: I took a seminar.

Jake: Where?

[Flash forward to the present]

Amy: And the score is all tied up.

Jake: But not for long. For in eight hours, I will win the bet and take Santiago on the worst date in the history of the world.

Holt: Attention. After today's shift, I'd like everyone join me at the bar for drinks in honor of Detective Boyle and his Medal of Valor.

Gina: Oh, my God, is peanut butter gonna be there? That horse is a damn hero.

Charles: Peanut butter will not be joining us.

Holt: He's being feted by the united nations. As you were.

Jake: Pen. [Throws pen at Amy and runs towards Holts office]

Amy: You... ow!

Jake: [Pushes chair into Amy and continues running] Rolly chair! [Then he shoves papers towards her] Gina's desk!

[Jake shuts Holts door and locks it, then closes the blinds]

Amy: Oh, Jake. No!

Jake: Captain, hey. You're looking stoic today, like a wise old oak.

Holt: I'm not gonna give you more cases so you can win your bet with Santiago.

Jake: What? Oh, right, the bet. [Chuckles] Totally forgot about that.

Holt: Well, granted, this friendly competition has led to you and Santiago putting in more hours and arresting more perps, especially this last week.

[Flashes back to different times in the last week]

Amy: Up by one, Peralta. Anything you want to say to your car before you never see it again? Hmm?

Jake: Hey, Santiago, do you have any dietary restrictions that medieval times should know about?

Amy: Yes, 3-1-1? What's the safest way to set a car on fire?

Jake: Ooh. Hmm!

[Flashes forward to the present]

Holt: Both of you have done exemplary work, which I appreciate.

Jake: And I can see that by the absolutely no indicators on your face.

Holt: However, you are colleagues, and the fallout from this bet has the potential to put a strain on your professional relationship.

Jake: Only if I lose. I'm a terrible sport.

Holt: Cases will be assigned as they usually are. Dismissed.

[Jake exits Holts office and Amy enters]

Amy: Captain, you look--

Holt: No.

Charles: Rosa, hey, would you like to share a cup of coffee with me? I got some gorgeous new coffee beans.

Rosa: Sure, that sounds great.

Gina: Isn't that, like, your fifth cup of coffee today?

Charles: I'm trying to counteract the drowsiness from my pain meds. I took a double dose after the incident at the ceremony.

[Flashes back to the incident]

Photographer: Bring Peanut Butter forward... forward. Uh, can the little guy take a big step back, please?

Charles: My name is Charles Boyle. I won the same medal as this horse. [Charles falls off the stage and screams]

[Flashes forward to the present]

Charles: The footage from my fall led the local news, so who's the hero now, Peanut Butter?

Gina: Peanut Butter.

Charles: Gina, you're just trying to hurt me to distract yourself from your own internal pain. Also, you should use less conditioner, because this is a flat mess.

Holt: What's going on with Boyle?

Rosa: His pain meds are making him weird.

Gina: Oh, okay. Yes. This happened to my dad when he got his vasectomy un-reversed. You get all relaxed and you have no filter and you just start dropping truth bombs on everyone.

Holt: Oh, that explains the elevator.

[Flashes to earlier when Holt in the elevator with Charles]

Charles: I'm worried you don't find me interesting. I'm gonna pretend someone texted me. Bloop. [Grabs his phone and chuckles]

Holt: Gina, please keep an eye on Boyle today. He's gonna say something to the wrong person and get himself punched.

Gina: Sure, I'd love to see Charles get punched.

Holt: Try again?

Gina: I will stop Charles from getting punched.

Holt: Correct.

Gina: [Smiles sarcastically] Great.

Amy: [Runs into the bullpen and heavily exhales] Ladies and gentlemen, I present Carl Laudson, who stole $3,000. Santiago takes the lead with one minute left. Suck it, Peralta.

Jake: [Bemused] Oh, no.

Amy: That's right, "oh, no." Oh, no. You don't seem worried. Why aren't you worried?

Jake: Bring in the Johns. [Mulitple arrested men enter the bullpen] I ran a prostitution sting through vice and arrested 30 guys for soliciting.

Amy: That's not a felony.

Jake: It is when it's your second offense, which is the case for ten of these gentlemen. Fun fact: Four of them are actually named John. Ironic. Anyhoo, ten more for Peralta. Accept your fate.

Amy: Never.

Jake: Five, four, three, two, one.

Amy: No.

Jake: Jake wins, Amy loses.

[Music playing]

♪ Celebrate good times come on! ♪

♪ Let's celebrate ♪

Jake: [Points to white board that says 'Peralta Wins'] Look!

[Horns blow]

♪ Celebrate good times, come on! ♪

[Jake starts dancing towards Amy]

Jake: Whoo! [Grabs a ring and gets on one knee] Amy Santiago, you have made me the happiest man on earth. I spent one whole dollar on this ring. Will you go on the worst date ever with me? You have to say yes.

Amy: Yes.

[Crowd cheers and applauds]

Jake: She said yes! She said yes. This is for you. [Hands Amy the ring and dances away]

[Next scene]

Jake: [Honks his car horn outside her building] Amy Santiago, date time. Time to date.

Amy: [Peeks head out the door] Peralta, this outfit is ridiculous.

Jake: Chop chop. There's plenty of embarrassing to do and only a few hours to do it in.

Amy: Happy? [Exits building with a ruffly blue dress]

Jake: Oh, yeah. You look like every girl at every bat mitzvah I ever had a crush on. Let's see the bow. [She turns around and he chuckles] Just like Jenny Gildenhorn. Why do I wish you had braces? Should we get you braces? No, that's too much. [Walks to the other side of the car] Here I come.

Amy: [She sees his weird outfit] Nice shorts.

Jake: Thank you. Believe it or not, they were not very expensive.

Amy: Do I really have to wear this all night?

Jake: You know the rules. The date starts now and ends at midnight. I decide what you wear, what you eat, and where we go. Oh, and there is one more rule. No matter what happens, you're not allowed to fall in love with me.

Amy: Won't be a problem.

Gerber: Detective Boyle, I just wanted to say congratulations. Your medal was well-deserved.

Charles: Thank you, sir. Your breath is terrible.

Gina: Charles, can I speak with you?

Charles: Hey, where's Rosa? I haven't seen her all night. Did you know my wife pays me alimony?

Gina: Okay, let's take a seat. I'm gonna keep an eye on you all night, little buddy.

Charles: Okay. Thanks.

Sharon Jeffords: Hey, baby.

Terry: Hey, baby. Happy you made it. Captain, I'd like you to meet my wife, Sharon.

Sharon Jeffords: It's so wonderful to meet you. I've heard such great things about you.

Holt: And you. Your husband is a real hero. If you ask me, he should've been up there with Detective Boyle today.

Sharon Jeffords: What for?

Holt: For saving my life.

Terry: He means metaphorically. You know, saving him from all that paperwork. Paper cuts are a slow death, baby.

Holt: No, I was referring to how he threw his body at an emotionally disturbed criminal who was trying to k*ll me.

[Flashes back to Terry tackling Colin Haimes trying to shoot Holt]

Terry: Nooo!

[G*nsh*t]

[Flashes forward to the present]

Sharon Jeffords: He did what? [Turns to Terry] Are you back in the field?

Holt: Oh. I have caused a problem. I think I am... Getting a text message. Bloop. Ah. There it is. [Turns around and grabs phone out of his pocket]

Sharon Jeffords: Why is this the first I'm hearing about this?

Terry: I thought I told you. Remember when you were half asleep watching the news and the babies were quiet, and I said, real low, "hey, baby. I'm back in the field. You want something to eat?" And you were like, "what?" And I was like, "you want something to eat?" And you said, "sure." And I got you an oatmeal cookie? Remember?

Sharon Jeffords: You are a piece of work, Terrance.

Terry: Oh, damn. She called me Terrance. I'm doomed.

[Bullhorn blares]

Jake: Hot date coming through. Hey, attention, everyone. Now I know that tonight is Boyle's big night.

[Crowd cheering]

Jake: But let's forget about that completely for a moment and admire and comment on every terrible aspect of this. [Points to Amys outfit]

[Cheers and applause]

Amy: Permission to go to the bathroom?

Jake: Granted. First of three. Use them wisely. [Amy walks away and Jake walks over to Charles] Hey. Congrats again, buddy. I really am proud of you. Still wearing the medal, huh?

Charles: Yes, I want women to be impressed by me.

Jake: All right. Well, I'm sorry that I can't stay, but I have a terrible night planned for Amy. First up is the mall photo studio, where we'll take our official date portrait. The picture will be the two of us playing one saxophone. Then some peel-and-eat shrimp for dinner at a dangerously cheap seafood restaurant. And then I've contracted a youth choir to serenade us.

[Flashes to Jake conducting a choir]

[Choir singing]

♪ Santiago Santiago ♪

♪ Santiago

♪ Santiago ♪

♪ You suck so bad ♪

Jake: Yes!

[Flashing forward to the present]

Jake: They'll sing to her at midnight the middle of Times Square. She and 500 German tourists will savor that memory for all times.

Charles: Jake, do you know why little boys pull little girls' pigtails on playgrounds?

Jake: 'Cause they're so easy to grab. They're just begging to be pulled.

Charles: Because they like the girls, and that's the only way they know how to get their attention.

Jake: What are you saying?

Charles: All of this teasing, this elaborate date, somewhere down deep, you like Amy. Like, "like her," like her.

Jake: Okay, that's straight-up insanity.

Charles: How much did you spend on tonight?

Jake: $1,400, but all of it's on credit cards, so it's, like, $5 a month for the next 2,000 years. I do not like Amy!

Charles: You're putting a lot of effort into a joke. Why don't you sit down and have a real conversation with her?

Jake: Okay, Boyle, you live in your ex-wife's new boyfriend's basement. I'm not taking advice from you. Hup. [Gets up and walks away]

Charles: I'm ashamed of my living situation.

Gina: Rosa, why are you sequestered over by this old cell phone?

Rosa: I'm avoiding Boyle and his truth bombs.

[Flashes to Charles talking to Hitchcock]

Charles: I sometimes worry I'm gonna become you.

[Flashes forward to the present]

Rosa: He keeps saying he wants to talk to me. I'm afraid he's gonna tell me he loves me or propose marriage or something.

Gina: Oh, my God. That makes me kind of want to cry.

Rosa: He dove in front of those b*ll*ts for me. I can't be mean to him. I watched him make coffee for 28 minutes this morning. But I also can't lead him on.

Gina: Captain Holt told me not to let him get hurt tonight. So I'll keep him away from you.

[Charles walks towards them and Rosa runs away]

Charles: Have you seen Rosa?

Gina: Rosa died eight years ago. Come on. Let's get you a drink.

Jake: Excuse me, everyone. Santiago and I will be performing the steerage jig from the film Titanic, which we have prepared for in no way, shape, or form.

Charles: Romantic.

Jake: No, embarrassing. [He walks towards Amy] Milady.

♪ [Upbeat fiddle music plays] ♪

[They begin to dance]

[Croud cheers and applauds]

Jake: Do the spinny.

Amy: I hate your guts.

Jake: Channel that passion into the dance.

Holt: Peralta.

Jake: Scully, tag in.

Scully: Okay.

Jake: Keep spinning. [Walks away towards Holt] Yes.

Holt: One of our informants just called. We've been tracking a crew that lifts cargo out of Laguardia. The C.I. knows where the trucks unload, so I need you to stake out the drop site.

Jake: Oh, sir, I'm right in the middle of this date and I cannot reschedule. I have far, far too many non-refundable deposits. I'm renting a tiger cub by the hour. For what? Don't even know. Waiting for inspiration.

Holt: Well, this is not a negotiation, so go.

Jake: All right, fine, but I'm taking Santiago with me. As soon as we're done, it's back to the date. [Turns to Amy] Darling. Brief pause. Duty calls. [They link arms and walk away]

Amy: Oh, thank God.

Scully: Gina, tag in?

Gina: No, not even if it would cure cancer.

Scully: Okay. [Continues dancing alone]

Terry: Look, baby, I'm sorry, but Captain's life was in danger. I just did what I had to do. It was an impulse decision.

Sharon Jeffords: Well, I guess I can understand that.

Holt: Sharon. I have to apologize. I want to assure you that the call to put Sergeant Jeffords back in the field wasn't a spur-of-the-moment, impulse decision. It's been in the works for a few months now.

Sharon Jeffords: Terry said it just happened. I think you two need to get your stories straight. [She walks away]

Holt: Perhaps I should stop talking to your wife.

Terry: That's a good call. Captain. [He chases after] Sharon.

Amy: I'm so happy to be out of that dress. It was weirdly hot.

Jake: Oh, yeah, it's probably because it was a cotton and plastic blend. But not to worry. We're gonna catch these guys and get back to the worst date of your life.

Amy: No. Nothing will ever be worse than the date I had with my aunt's dentist.

[Flashes back to Amy on that date]

Amy's Date: You should try some of this.

Amy: Okay. [She opens her mouth to eat it]

Amy's Date: Oh. Okay. Hold on. Hmm? [Inspecting her mouth for cavities with his utensils] Yeah, dessert is out of the question.

[Flashes to the present]

[Both of them laugh]

Amy: What was your worst date ever?

Jake: I think it's, like, a 50-way tie. The last lady I went out with burst into tears when I told her I was a Gemini.

Amy: Wow.

Jake: Hey, those people left that door open. I bet there's a better vantage point from the roof.

Amy: Mmm, and I bet it doesn't smell like old cheese.

Jake: Okay, that's hurtful. Shall we?

Amy: Yeah.

[They open their car doors and get out]

Sharon Jeffords: So what else don't I know? You cooking meth? You Breaking Bad? How many phones do you have?

Holt: I'm sorry, I need to clarify something I said earlier. Sergeant Jeffords was correct when he said that his choice to go back in the field that night was an impulse decision. He didn't even take the time to stop and gear up, so...

Sharon Jeffords: What? So... You didn't have your vest on?

Holt: Oh, no. Oh, goodness. I shouldn't have said that. I feel I may have made things worse.

Charles: Wait. I can fix this, Ray.

Terry: Now is not the time, Boyle.

Sharon Jeffords: [Puts her hand over Terrys mouth] Hush! I want to hear this.

Holt: Boyle, let's not make big...

Charles: [Puts hand over Holts mouth] Hush. Truth time. We love your husband. He's a great cop. We will do anything to protect him. And you have incredibly attractive hands. [Turns to Terry] And you, what the hell are you doing, lying to your wife? Unless you want to end up moving into my ex-wife's new boyfriend's basement with me, you better man up. Don't you ever keep anything from this beautiful woman again. Seriously, you are beautiful. Oh. If he ever lies to you again, you can call me.

Terry: I'm sorry, honey. I just didn't want you to worry.

Sharon Jeffords: Baby, I am always gonna worry about you. But if you feel like you're ready, then get your ass back in the field. But if you ever keep anything from me again, I will leave you for this short, earnest man and his ex-wife's new boyfriend's apartment. I know you're kidding, but Hercules is actually a very good landlord. Sometimes, when they go on nice vacations, I'm allowed to use the hot tub.

Jake: Man, I don't know how Batman does it. It is super scary up here. Hey, will you grab the binoculars? They're in my stakeout bag.

Amy: Your stakeout bag is 98% nuts.

Jake: I get snacky. Besides, nuts are super healthy. They're, like, 0% fat.

Amy: Jake, that's not true at all. It's actually the opposite.

Jake: What? That nut vendor lied to me.

[She hands him the binoculars, opens the bag of nuts and both look down to the street]

Amy: I think a pigeon just flew out of your car.

Jake: Yeah. The windows don't exactly roll up.

Amy: The car's a piece of crap. Why do you love it so much?

Jake: You really want to know? I was two days out of the academy, super nervous. Saw this guy run out of a bodega, clutching a bunch of cash. So I pursued him on foot, 11 blocks. Finally catch him, cuff him, throw him up against that car. Turned out there was a for sale sign in the window, and, it being the best day of my life, I bought it. Thus began the debt.

Amy: Crushing debt.

Jake: Yeah, you do know me.

Amy: Nut?

Jake: Only if you throw it.

Amy: Ready? Ready? [Tosses a nut into his mouth]

Jake: Mm-hmm. Nice. You ready? Uh-huh. [He tosses a nut but she misses it]

[Both laugh]

Jake: What are you doing? Trying to catch it in your nose? [Phone rings]

Amy: I got it, I got it, I got it.

Jake: It's Holt. Keep practicing.

Amy: Okay. [Keeps trying to toss nuts into her mouth but is failing]

Jake: [On the phone] Peralta.

Holt: Oh, good news, Peralta. I found someone from the night shift to relieve you on your stakeout.

Jake: Ooh. Still make Times Square. Um... You know, Captain, hold off on the relief team. We're already here. Plus I'm curious to see what happens.

Holt: Okay, it's your call. All right.

Jake: [Sniffs]

Amy: What did Holt want?

Jake: Just checking in. How you doing? Any progress?

Amy: Yep. Watch. [Tosses a handful of nuts catching only a few in her mouth] The key is volume.

Jake: I see that.

[Next scene]

Jake: So be honest. If you'd won the bet, were you really gonna destroy my car?

Amy: No. I was gonna drive it. So I could learn stick.

Jake: You wouldn't.

Amy: I would. Would've been, like, [moving her hand like she's driving stick also making a screeching noise]

Jake: No. No! Hey, hey! There's our guys.

Amy: What's the play here?

Jake: Just follow my lead. Give me the ring. Now give me some nuts. I'm snacky.

[Next scene]

Jake: All right, fine, darling. I'll ask him. Will that make you happy? [Turns to the one of the cargo movers] Excuse me, sir.

Cargo Mover: We're kind of busy here.

Jake: Yeah, my girlfriend, here, thinks we're lost.

Amy: No, I know we're lost. I think he's an idiot.

Jake: Idiot? You know why we're out here in the middle of the night, Susan? I was gonna propose to you. [Showing her the ring]

Amy: [Gasps]

Jake: On the Brooklyn bridge, where we met.

Amy: Brooklyn bridge? We met on the Manhattan bridge.

Jake: You know what? This is over. Say good-bye to the ring and everything it represents. [He chucks the ring far away]

Amy: [Gasps] You son of a b*tch!

Cargo Mover: Hey, hey. Stop yelling.

Jake: Hey, no one talks to Susan like that. And you know what else? On the ground! NYPD!

Amy: NYPD! You're under arrest.

Jake: Nice work.

Amy: You too.

Cargo Mover: I'm sad y'all are arresting me, but I gotta say, I'm glad you're back together.

Charles: Hey. I need to talk to you.

Rosa: Oh. It's happening?

Charles: Remember when I took those b*ll*ts for you?

Rosa: Okay, let's do this. I think you're sweet--

Charles: I didn't know it was you. When I jumped in front of those b*ll*ts, I didn't know who I was protecting. I just saw a g*n and an NYPD vest, and so I dove on instinct. You've been extra nice to me because you thought I'd risked my life for you. But I only did what every good cop would do. When you finally go out with me, and you will, it'll be because I do things that only Charles Boyle would do. [Goes to walk away but turns around] Um, actually, I have a coat in here. It's, uh... it's, like... actually, I see it. It's, like... it's blue... it's, like, right...

Holt: Excellent job on the stakeout last night. I'm glad to see you two still work well together despite that ridiculous bet.

Amy: Thanks. Me too.

Holt: And I appreciate your turning down the relief team. I'm not sure they could've made that bust.

Amy: Yeah. Right. The relief team.

[Next scene]

Amy: So... sorry you lost so much money last night. Guess you can add it to your list of bad dates.

Jake: Nah, it still goes on the good date list. You know, 'cause we caught the bad guys.

Amy: That's very mature of you.

Jake: Well, I am very mature man.

Delivery Man/Stripper: Package for Amy Santiago.

Amy: That's me.

Delivery Man/Stripper: Special delivery from Jake Peralta to say,[takes out speaker] "thanks for last night."

Jake: Oh, no. I forgot to cancel.

♪ Here I am ♪

Amy: Cancel what?

[The stripper turns her chair and starts to undress and dance]

Jake: Sir, you don't have to... [He gets up]

Amy: Okay.

Jake: Okay. All right, so... Uhh... eugh! [He tries to stop him but the mans clothes hit him] Okay, no, no, no, no, no. [Jake then stands backwards in between Amy and the stripper, who is dancing very close to him] All right, stepping in, stepping in. I'll take this b*llet for you. [Hitchcock took off his shirt] Ugh. Hitchcock, what are you doing?

Hitchcock: I thought--aren't we all gonna--no?

Jake: Morning, Scully. How was your weekend?

Scully: Oh, fun. Kelly and I hit the park, went for a long walk. Fell asleep watching TV.

Jake: Oh. Sounds like a fun weekend with Kelly.

[Scully walks away and Jake walks toward his desk]

Jake: So, Kelly. Is that Scully's wife or his dog? [Looks around and no one knows] Uh... Wait. No one knows Scully's wife's name?

Amy: I think Kelly is his dog. Went for a long walk. That's what you do with a dog.

Charles: You can go on a long walk with a person. At sunset. Talking about nothing. And everything.

Rosa: Sounds awful. Hit the park. That's a dog.

Terry: My wife takes the babies to the park all the time.

Jake: All right, we're doing this. Let's play "wife or dog." Hey, so Scully, what do you do at the park with Kelly?

Scully: Oh, we just walk around. She gets antsy if she doesn't get outside enough. And then it's just yap, yap, yap, all day long.

Charles: Hey, what's Kelly's favorite food?

Scully: Peanut butter. She'll eat it right out of the jar.

Terry: How old is Kelly again?

Scully: Well, she's getting up there, but she's pretty spry for her age. Especially considering she got hit by that car a year ago.

Jake: Oh, that's so awful. Was she chasing something into the street, or...

Scully: No. Just getting me the newspaper.

Jake: All right, this is useless. Scully, is Kelly your wife or your dog?

Scully: How can you ask me that? [He storms off upset]

Jake: I still don't know which it is.

Charles: Could be either.

Jake: I could not tell you.

♪ Intro Sequence ♪

Holt: Okay, what do you got?

Charles: Yup.

[Holt looking for something]

Jake: Oh, sir, are you looking for your glasses? I borrowed them to do an impression of you. It k*lled.

[Flashes to Jake impersonating Holt]

Jake as Holt: Peralta, give me my glasses.

[Flashes back to the present]

Holt: Peralta, give me back my glasses.

Jake: Okay.

Holt: All right, lay out the steroids case.

Jake: It's a major operation. And one of the biggest black market distributors in all of Brooklyn. And it's centered at a gym called Brooklyn Total Body. The center of our investigation is a guy named Brandon Jacoby. He did seven years at Rikers for as*ault.

[Flashes to a sequence of Brandon Jacoby boxing and where he screams while flipping a huge tire]

Charles: We spent two weeks undercover infiltrating the gym. "Gym-filtrating" it. I coined that. I think it'll really catch on if more people infiltrated gyms.

Jake: We believe that Jacoby can link us to the distributors, but he only talks to trainers and other muscle heads. So we want to bring in the Sarge. His name will be Trent Carter. A personal trainer, bouncer, and assistant manager at petsmart. It's the economy. What can you do?

Holt: Gentlemen, have a seat. Sergeant Jeffords is just getting back in the field. What if he panics again?

Jake: Why is everyone so worried about the Sarge? I mean, he saved your life at the rail yard.

Holt: Okay. It's your case. But if anything goes wrong, it's on you.

Jake: Trust me, the Sergeant will be fine. If you want to worry about anyone panicking in the field it should be Boyle.

[They high five]

Charles: Damn straight. Wait, why'd high five that?

Jake: 'Cause you're a sucker for a high five.

[They high five again]

Charles: Damn straight I am.

Gina: Captain, I need a favor. My apartment got broken into last night.

Holt: Gina, that's terrible. Are you okay?

Gina: I'm fine, but I suffered the loss of many treasured items. Such as my grandma's jewelry, some cash, and this very fancy gown with, like, a magic eye print. Do you have any connections in the FBI or CIA? There's no one else I can turn to to solve this crime.

Holt: Gina, you work in a police precinct. You can turn to anyone here.

Gina: You think these buffoons can help? They're buffoons.

Holt: They are not buffoons.

[Flashes to Scully and Hitchcock doing something weird and gross]

Scully: Try the heel. [Hitchcock tries again] Still don't feel anything.

Hitchcock: Awesome. I wish I had nerve damage.

[Flashes back to the present]

Holt: Some of them are buffoons. But I'll find the non-buffoons to investigate. Could you ask Scully to return my thumbtacks?

Gina: I already put 'em in a biohazard bag and tossed 'em in the furnace.

Holt: Good call.

Jake: You ready, Sarge?

Terry: I was born ready. And then I was not born ready for a while, but now I'm back to being born ready.

Jake: Yes! The Ebony Falcon soars again.

Charles: The Ebony Falcon. His feathers are muscles.

Terry: Let's talk strategy later tonight at my house. My wife's working late, I'm on daddy duty.

Charles: But you're ready for this, right?

Terry: Absolutely. I just need to put my precious babies to bed with a story.

[Jake and Charles look at him skeptically]

Terry: The Ebony Falcon needs to read Go, Dog, Go.

Jake: Yeah, he does. Terry Jeffords is back! Chest bump me.

Terry: You don't want to do this, man.

Jake: No, I really do.

Terry: It hurts you every time.

Jake: No, I know, but I'm fired up. The adrenaline is gonna carry me through. Here we go. [Terry chest bumps Jake, but Jake falls over backwards][Grunts]

Holt: No signs of forced entry at the door. But the window was jimmied.

Rosa: You don't have locks on your windows.

Gina: Way to blame the victim. Sorry I'm not rich like you, Miss 1%.

Rosa: They cost $8. You have a fur bedspread.

Amy: Why do you have so many lycra bodysuits? And why do you need eight full drawers of underwear?

Gina: Because I'm civilized. Less talky-talk, more solvey-solve.

Rosa: We need an itemized list of everything that was stolen.

Gina: I already gave it to Captain Holt.

Holt: $160 in cash, one TV, one large painting of a naked lady on a lion, one set of Joseph Gordon-Levitt nesting dolls...

Amy: [Whispers] Wow.

Gina: Homemade and irreplaceable.

Holt: One music box that plays she works hard for the money when opened. One knockoff designer clutch...

Rosa: Can't you just buy another knockoff?

Gina: No, I can't, Silly Sue. 'Cause the label no longer makes the original, so the sweatshop no longer makes the knockoff.

Rosa: Can you estimate the value of everything that was taken?

Gina: Emotionally, 700 million dollars.

[Doorbell rings]

Cagney/Lacey Jeffords: Somebody at the door.

Terry: [Terry opens the door] Yeah.

Jake: Hey, Sarge.

Terry: Sorry about the mess.

Charles: Hi, Cagney. Hi, Lacey.

Jake: Hey, your kids like the same kind of cereal as me.

Terry: Well, we just finished story time. I'm gonna kiss the girls night-night, then we can get down to business. All right, time for night-night, girls.

[Terry exits taking the girls to bed]

Charles: He is so strong but so gentle. He's like an enormous, muscular Ellen DeGeneres.

Terry: You know, I just want to let you guys know that I love you girls so, so much okay? So sleep tight. You know, daddy will never leave you, right, girls?

Cagney/Lacey Jeffords: Night-night, daddy.

Charles: Gosh. Really makes you understand what he went through.

Jake: I'm worried about Terry. We can't let anything bad happen to him.

[Next scene]

Charles: Jake, where are you?

Jake: In here.

Charles: Oh... This is a classy tepee. Should we get these instead of desks at work?

Jake: We have to get Terry off this case.

Charles: What? Why?

Jake: Look, I thought he was a weirdo for having his year-long freak-out, but I get it now. He has children. What happens to them if he gets hurt? I'll have to take care of them.

Charles: Or his wife or other family or his more mature friends, but interesting point. Why is this just hitting you now?

Jake: I don't know, I guess I just hadn't seen his kids in so long he never takes them around the precinct for some reason. [Gasps] Because of all the g*ns and danger.

Charles: If you have concerns, maybe you should talk to Terry about it.

Jake: No. And you can't either. If he finds out we're worried about him, it'll get in his head and freak him out. He'll lose his edge and panic.

Charles: Yeah, that's why I've never tried to develop an edge. You can't lose what you don't have. No surprises.

[Terry peeks into the tepee]

Terry: What are you guys talking about?

Jake: Work.

Charles: International taxes and tariffs... Work.

Jake: Heh.

[Next scene]

Terry: So... What's the plan at the gym?

Jake: Well, I say we slow-play it. You know? Do a little more setup, a little surveillance, wait a couple months and see if they turn themselves in.

Terry: Listen, man, I know everybody's worried about me being psychologically ready for this. But I promise you I am. No matter what happens, no matter how many b*ll*ts are flying, I'm gonna be right there in the middle of everything. I got your back.

Jake: No, it's not even that, you know, it's just... Well, frankly, I'm not so sure that everyone at the gym is gonna buy you as a trainer. You've been sitting behind that desk for so long you've gotten a little tubby. Right? It's like, love handle alert! [Trys to grab Terrys belly but Terry has none] Do you have a bone there somehow?

Terry: Jake, I promise. I'm good. [He sees and then grabs his girls stuffed giraffe] Oops. I gotta put this stuffed giraffe between my two girls. They both like to snuggle against his head. [Tiny, squeaky voice] Here comes Mr. Snuggles. Here comes Mr. Snuggles.

Rosa: [On the phone] Okay, thanks. [Hangs up the phone] Crime tech report from your apartment came back. Apparently they found a strand of hair belonging to Mario Lopez.

Gina: I bought a lock of his hair at an auction. That's cool it's real. What'd they say about the prints?

Rosa: None of the partials returned any matches. Nobody in your building saw anything. We've hit a wall.

Gina: So what do we do next? Do I just look for another apartment? Should I buy a handg*n? Should I buy a sh*tg*n? Should I buy an U*i?

Amy: Look, Gina, we've done all we can. This is how it goes with most B and E's.

Gina: Mm. All right. [Chuckles] C'est la vie. Let me grab your badge numbers. 'Cause I will be filing an official civilian complaint with the Captain.

[They all start laughing]

Holt: Why did I just receive a civilian complaint about you two?

Amy: I can answer this. Because your assistant is a goblin.

Rosa: Captain, we swept the scene, ran the prints, canvassed the building. We followed procedure.

Gina: "Procedure" is just a fancy word for proper order to do things.

Holt: Yes, that is it's definition.

Gina: This is a miscarriage of justice. I'm gonna haunt your dreams. [Gina chuckles and walks out]

Terry: You sure you can lift this much weight?

Jake: Are you kidding me? I was the strongest kid in my camp seven summers in a row. It would've been eight if that freak Rebecca Lobelman hadn't showed up. Let's put in work. And here we go. One. [Tries lifting the weights] And I'm done. That's it. Oh, good rep. Don't wanna get too bulky.

Charles: [Sighs] Two things. First, this gym's wipe-down policy is criminally lax. So I rewrote it. Second, I lowered the temperature of the water fountain by two degrees. Still waiting on feedback, but I see a lot of refreshed faces. Also Brandon Jacoby should be here soon.

Jake: How was that not one of your two things?

Charles: I gave his regular trainer the day off, I told him Trent would be filling in. It was an interesting interaction.

[Flashes back to Charles talking to Brandon Jacoby]

Charles: Well, according to my new cloud-based scheduling system, your trainer is out, and Trent will be filling in.

Brandon Jacoby: [Screams while hitting the desk, knocking the water bottle pyramid]

[Flashes forward to the present]

Charles: I spent 40 minutes making that water bottle pyramid display. This guy is a psycho.

Jake: You know the best way to deal with psychos. The silent treatment. We should draw him out by not engaging.

Terry: Nope. The longer we wait the more likely our cover gets blown. I'll make contact.

Jake: Okay, but just remember. You're not Terry. You're Trent. Trainer and known hemophiliac, so be careful. [Terry walks away toward Brandon Jacoby] Trent is also a quaker who avoids v*olence at all costs.

Brandon Jacoby: You Trent?

Terry: Yup. A black Trent. One of many. Uh, what do you want to start with today?

Brandon Jacoby: Weights.

Jake: Excuse me, sir. Can I borrow this machine? I need to be here to keep an eye on a friend.

Old Man: [Grunts] Hold on. I'm on my last set.

Jake: Okay.

Old Man: Two... Three...

Jake: Can you go any faster? I mean, what do you need leg muscles for anyway? You're, like, 100 years old. Socially acceptable for you to roll around on a scooter.

Old Man: I lost the count. [Grunts] One.

Jake: One?

Old Man: [Grunts]

Jake: You're not even moving. Let's go. [Jake tries to move him off the machine]

Old Man: Get your hands off me! I've heard about this in the news! You're cyber-bullying me! Shh! I'm getting the manager! Get the hell away from me! [He storms off]

Jake: No, you're very misinformed. Please don't... [Notices Terry and Brandon are gone] Damn it.

[Next scene]

Jake: Hey. Have you seen Terry? I lost him. His children could be orphans already. Fatherless, mother-having orphans.

Charles: I'm sure he's fine. I think the bigger issue is the complaint I received from an older gentleman saying you tried to hurry him off his machine, in open defiance of gym protocol.

Jake: Don't do this.

Charles: I know we're friends, but if you do that again, I'm gonna have to suspend your membership.

Jake: What have you become?

Charles: Me. I've become me.

Jake: What? [Terry walks into the locker room] Oh, Sarge, thank God. Where were you? What happened?

Terry: Nothing happened. Jacoby wanted to do wind sprints outside. You know, he's a mean dude, but I think I'm making progress. He asked to borrow my squat belt, I told him no, he respected that.

Jake: Okay, but let's build up that relationship slowly, okay? We don't want to jump the g*n and spook him.

Brandon Jacoby: Whew!

Terry: 'Sup?

Brandon Jacoby: Good workout. You know, it's weird I never worked out with you before. What'd you say your regular gym was?

Terry: I didn't. Brooklyn Bulk Fitness.

Brandon Jacoby: Huh? I work out there too. Never heard of any Trent.

Terry: I don't know why. I work out there all the time.

Brandon Jacoby: Really? Starting when?

[Jake comes out from the other side of the lockers, holding his badge and his g*n at Brandon Jacoby]

Jake: NYPD, hands on your head! My God, you're gigantic.

Terry: What are you doing, Peralta? You just blew my cover!

Jake: Or did I save your life?

Terry: Or did you compromise an investigation and piss off a superior officer?

Jake: I'm sensing from your tone it's that one.

Amy: I need some afternoon coffee. [Yawns]

Rosa: What's the matter with you?

Amy: Gina came by my house last night to go over the case. Between us doing that and her using my bread maker all night, I didn't get much sleep. I will say she makes a wonderful rye. So dense, yet so moist.

Gina: Hello, ladies. Since you have allowed crime to win, I've hired a private investigator to solve my case. Say hello to Leo Sporm.

Rosa: A P.I.? These guys are hacks.

[Leo Sporms P.I. commercial plays]

Leo Sporm: How do you know if your husband's a m*rder*r? You don't.

Male announcer: Call Leo now.

[Commercial Ends]

Holt: Leo Sporm. How's business?

Amy: You know this guy?

Holt: Everyone knows him. The Picasso of hucksters.

Leo Sporm: I like that. [Writes something on his notepad]

Rosa: "Look up who Picasso is."

Holt: Sporm. Out. Now.

Terry: You blew our cover, man! Now I gotta go into an interrogation with no evidence and try to get Jacoby to rat out his distributors!

Jake: I'm sorry, I got jumpy. I wasn't thinking straight. It was all the exercise. The blood from my head rushed into my delts.

Terry: Point to your delts, Jake.

Jake: [Points all over his body] There is...

Terry: You didn't have to hop in there, man. I can handle this. What's my name?

Jake: Terry Jeffords.

Terry: What is my name?

Jake: The Ebony Falcon.

Terry: And what does The Ebony Falcon do?

Jake: Takes every precaution to ensure his own safety?

Terry: [Growls]

Jake: Takes bad guys to jail and bad girls to bed.

Terry: Hell yeah, he does. Except now The Ebony Falcon is monogamous and too tired for sex, so his only indulgence is fresh fruit yogurt parfaits.

[Terry walks away]

Jake: Terry loves yogurt.

Charles: How's it going?

Jake: Well, so far Jacoby hasn't given anything up, but I think Terry's starting to get to him.

Brandon Jacoby: I'm not talking.

Terry: You're talking right now! [Slams his hands on the table] Boom! [Whispers] I'm already in your head.

Jake: Sarge is safe in there, so the longer this interrogation goes the better. We gotta solve the case before he does. Hey, tell me about that new system you set up at the gym for scheduling appointments.

Charles: I've been waiting so long to hear you say those words. Come with me. Experience the future of cloud-based scheduling.

Jake: Okay.

[Next scene]

Charles: I put all the trainers' schedules into a shared online calendar. Aside from the cucumber water at the front desk, it's probably my greatest accomplishment ever.

Jake: Hang on a sec. Who's this guy? Says he's a personal trainer at the gym, but he has no regular hours. He always makes last-minute appointments, always in the boxing area, and always late at night. And look who he trains. Brandon Jacoby.

Charles: That's probably our supplier. We should set up a buy from this Vladimir Rincic.

Jake: All right. We should set up a tactical team and hit the gym. And Sergeant Jeffords should stay here and keep interrogating Jacoby for as many hours or years as necessary.

Charles: Are you sure I shouldn't go get him? I feel a little uncomfortable leaving him out of this.

Jake: Don't think of it as leaving him out so much as including his babies in having a father. Let's go.

Holt: Detectives. Where are you going?

Jake: Just headed out to close the steroid case.

Holt: Isn't sergeant Jeffords interrogating the suspect now?

Jake: Yup, he's got that locked up. We're following up on this lead. The whole team is running smoothly and perfectly like a well-lubed, oiled time clock--bye.

[Jake and Charles walk away]

[Next scene]

Holt: Why do you think Gina hired that P.I.?

Amy: To mock us.

Holt: She's scared.

Amy: She's not scared. With all due respect, sir, Gina has no feelings.

Rosa: She once said the best comedy of all time was The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.

Holt: Well, think about how she's been acting.

[Flashes back to how Ginas been acting]

Amy: Gina came by my house last night.

Gina: Do I buy an U*i?

Gina: I asked for a police officer to escort me to work, and it took a while for dispatch to find me a young Kevin Costner type.

[Flashes to the present]

Holt: Her home doesn't feel safe anymore. If someone broke into your apartment and you weren't cops, wouldn't you be scared?

Amy: Yes.

Rosa: Depends. How many g*ns do I still have hidden?

Holt: None.

Rosa: Do I still have my knife? Nunchucks? Axe?

Holt: It was a hypothetical question.

Rosa: I know, but I want to play it out. Do I still have my throwing stars?

Amy: This has taken a strange turn.

Rosa: Fine. I'd be scared. We're on it. [Amy and Rosa both get up and walk out of his office] What kind of woman doesn't have an axe?

Jake: All right, we're all set for the sting. We got hidden cameras, wireless mics, and tactical teams by all the exits. I told Vladimir to meet Vance Vandervaven, a.k.a. me, here at 10:00. Said that I was filling in for Jacoby. You and I will be sparring when he arrives.

Charles: Cool. I boxed at the academy. They invented a new weight class for me. You're looking at the undisputed bubbleweight champion. [Throws punches the air]

Terry: [Terry storms in the gym] Hey! Peralta! Boyle!

Jake: Sarge, hey. I'm so psyched you made it here to the sting that I definitely told Charles to tell you about.

Terry: You lied to me!

Jake: I can see that you're upset, but let's just sit down and talk about it.

Terry: Done talking! [Grabs boxing gloves and throws them at Jake] Time to dance.

Jake: Fine. But I should warn you. I took three years of tap.

[Next scene]

Jake: Again, Sarge, it's so good to see you. Just out of curiosity, how did you find out about this?

Terry: I'm a Detective Sergeant in the NYPD. Holt told me. Why are you cutting me out of the operation?

Jake: What? That's crazy! Boyle, come in here and stand in front of my body and tell him that's crazy. [Terry punches Jake in the face] Ow! My lucky face!

Terry: You gonna talk to me now?

Jake: Sure. If you could be any vacation... [Terry punches him in the face again] Oh! You didn't let me finish. [Laughs] If you could be any vacation, what would you be? I'd be skiing.

Terry: Oh, now I'm gonna hit you for real.

Jake: That wasn't for real? Oh, my God. [Terry goes to punch him again] No, wait, wait, wait! I was worried!

Terry: Worried about what?

Jake: About you getting hurt. I don't want your daughters growing up without a dad. I know what that's like, and it sucks. And I don't want it to happen to them.

Terry: Why didn't you just say something to me?

Jake: Because I didn't want to get in your head and have you freak out again.

Terry: Yeah, I get it. It's been a rough year. But I've learned to embrace my fears. It makes me a better cop.

Charles: Tacs one and two are set. 30 minutes until the bogeys arrive.

Jake: Thanks, Boyle. I love it when you say "bogeys." [Turns back to Terry] So we good?

Terry: We good. And for the record... If I could be any kind of vacation... I'd be lake trip.

Jake: Classic.

Rosa: You're here late.

Gina: Ah, you know me. I love working. Can't tear me away from my work. I just love requisitions and corporate record reports. Just, you know, messages from people for Holt.

Amy: I can imagine how frightening this must be. I'm sorry we didn't catch the guy.

Gina: Yeah. It's weird. It's like, why do the worst things always happen to the best people? And what's to keep it from happening again?

Rosa: We are. Come on. We're taking you home.

Gina: Really?

[Next scene]

Rosa: We installed a second lock on your front door, put locks on the windows by the fire escape, and set all your lights on timers.

Gina: That makes me feel so much better. Thank you, guys. And as a token of my appreciation, I would like to give you... These. [Holds up two different color stretchy leotards]

Amy: Great.

Gina: The cool thing is you can eat whatever you want. [Stretches the leotard] These are right there with you.

Vladimir Rincic: Hey! You Vance Vandervaven?

Terry: Yeah. That's me. I'll be right there. [Turns to Jake] You gonna let me do this, man?

Jake: What choice do I have? You hit me in the arms so hard they no longer work.

Terry: All right. It's time to catch some bad guys. Its good to be back.

Jake: Have a fun steroid deal, Sergeant.

Terry: You're a weird guy, Jake.

Jake: Yeah.

[Terry walks out of the boxing ring towards Vladimir Rincic and his thugs]

Charles: The Ebony Falcon.

Jake: No. The Ebony Falcon had no fear. He's The Ebony Antelope now. Brave enough to drink at the lake, but wise enough to run from the lions. Hey, my arms don't work. Can you scratch my nose?

Charles: You bet. [Charles scratches Jakes nose]

Jake: Mm-hmm. Yeah. Thank you.

[Next scene]

Jake: Morning, Captain.

Holt: So? How did Sergeant Jeffords do?

Jake: Why is everyone so worried about the Sarge? He was amazing. He made the buy, took out the suppliers, but wisely didn't take on more than he could handle.

[Flashes to Terry holding multiple thugs with his arms and legs]

Terry: I left one for you.

[Flashes back to the present]

Jake: And you'll be happy to know that he punched me in the face several times.

Holt: That does make me happy.

Jake: Guess we're being candid today.

[Next scene]

Jake: Hey, Sarge, just for the record, I hope you're on every case with me for the rest of my career. I'm not scared for you at all. Of you a lot.

Terry: Thanks, Jake. Oh, Peralta, I almost forgot. My girls made you a card. To thank you for keeping me safe. [He hands Jake the card]

Jake: Oh... They're so full of potential. [Chuckles] Why would you show me this? [Starts crying]

Jake: We've busted murderers, we've taken down cartels. But today we face the worst New York has to offer... The Fire Department. [Jake walks up towards Boone] Fire Marshal Boone, we meet again.

Boone: Detective Peralta, your fly's down. I made you look.

Jake: I didn't look. And I'm wearing shorts, there is no fly.

Boone: That's not what your mom said.

Jake: You make no sense.

Boone: And now I'm inside your head.

Jake: Prepare to d*e. [Jake walks away]

[Next scene]

Jake: Blue 52. Hut. [He passes the football to Terry]

[All grunting]

[Terry tackles two people and scores a touchdown]

Terry: Yeah! [Terry starts dancing]

[All cheering]

♪ Nothing's gonna ever keep you down ♪

♪ You're the best around ♪

[All grunting]

[Terry is carrying multiple firemen into the endzone]

[Cheers and applause]

Terry: Ah, ah, ah. [Terry starts dancing again]

Boone: You don't have to dance every time.

Terry: True, but I choose to dance every time. [Laughs]

[Both jump up and tap shoulders and grunt]

Terry: Whoo!

Boone: You have one play. You give the ball to Jeffords, and he runs it in. I-I'd like to see you score one.

Jake: Good, 'cause you're about to see it. You're about to see it straight to hell. [Jake turns around and walks away] Hut, hut.

♪ You're the best

Jake: Now, Terry. [Terry lifts Jake over his shoulder across the field]

♪ Nothing's gonna ever keep you down ♪

[Terry carries Jake all the way to the endzone]

Jake: Yeah! I did it. I did it alone. I'm the King of the world! Whoo!

♪ Intro Sequence ♪

Jake: ♪ Cream in my coffee and rock and roll ♪

Holt: Peralta.

Jake: Ah, Captain Holt. You look very... sad? I can never tell.

Holt: Do you have a m*rder suspect to question?

Jake: He is in the interrogation room as we speak, sitting and, I assume, stewing. I put on a song that I think sums up his situation nicely.

[Flashes to the interegation room where the suspect is playing Sonny & Cher's I Got You Babe]

♪ I got you, babe ♪

[Flashes back to the present]

Jake: Because, you see...

Holt: You got him, babe. I understood the wordplay, yes.

Jake: Oh. I've been chasing this guy for three months. I've got him dead to rights. Fingerprints, witnesses, it's in the bag. So I'm just gonna grab a healthy breakfast--

Holt: Are those gummy bears wrapped in a fruit roll-up?

Jake: Breakfast burrito, but yeah.

Holt: I pity your dentist. [Holt walks away]

Jake: Ah, joke's on you. I don't have a dentist.

Amy: Jake, Jake.

Jake: Uh-oh, this can't be good.

Terry: Major crimes division just called. They're taking over your m*rder case. The Vulture is on his way here now.

Jake: No! Doesn't that guy get tired of stealing our cases? He took one from me and Rosa last week.

[Flashes to Jake and Rosa chasing a suspect]

Jake: NYPD. Stop!

Rosa: Ugh. You made us run up ten flights of stairs.

Jake: It's over.

Pembrooke: [Comes out of the elevator] Thanks, guys.[Tosses an apple at Jake] I got it from here.

[Flashes forward to the present]

Amy: Don't worry, we can stall him until you get the confession. We rehearsed this, you guys. This isn't a drill. Everyone know their assignments?

Jake: All right, hands in. Commence operation: Broken feather. And go!

[Next scene]

Jake: Okay, Gus, I don't have a lot of time. I need your full, signed confession. We have four minutes. We can do this.

Gus: But I'm not guilty.

Jake: Listen to me, Gus. We can do this, son.

Pembrooke: [Gets out of his car and slams the door] Yo, is this a police station or a toilet? 'Cause all I see is turds. [Chuckles]

Charles: Oh, Detective Pembroke. [Charles bumps into Pembrooke spilling coffee all over]

[Slow-motion grunt]

Charles: Oh, no. I spilled coffee on you by accident.

Pembrooke: Lucky for you, this wipes off quickly. This coat's made out of whale skin.

Charles: [On the phone] The vulture still flies. The vulture still flies.

Rosa: Hey, Pembroke. What do you say we go talk about a case in the break room?

Pembrooke: Oh, yeah? What case is that?

Rosa: The case of how you got so damn sexy.

Pembrooke: God owed me a favor. Case solved.

Gus: I told you, I didn't know the guy.

Jake: You're lying. We have pictures of you two. Come on, we only have three minutes. It's like you're not even trying to confess!

Amy: [Running into the bullpen] The Vulture is coming. We need more time. Someone do something.

Scully: I got it. Tear gas. [Takes out a tear gas and releases the clip]

[Overlapping shouting]

Hitchcock: Scully, Scully, wrap my shirt around your face. [Takes off shirt and throws it to Scully]

[All coughing]

Pembrooke: [With sunglasses he walks through the tear gas uneffected] And out of the tear gas rises the Phoenix. [Laughs]

[Next scene]

Pembrooke: [Grunts while kicking the door open] Hey, Peralta. I got it from here.

Jake: [Sighs] All right, fine. I'll just go then... With this fully signed confession. We did it, Gus! [Jake high fives Gus]

Gus: Whoo! Suck it, vulture. I k*lled that guy and his neighbor, but you were too late.

Jake: Whoo! Wait, you k*lled his neighbor?

[Next scene]

Jake: Amy, check it out. [Shows her a picture of them both with the signed confession]

Amy: Nice, you got it framed?

Jake: Of course. It commemorates our victory over The Vulture, the greatest day in human history. Sorry the tear gas made you look like a demon dog at the end of Ghostbusters.

Holt: [Enters his office] Brief me on the hotel robberies.

Jake: Helpful hint to the scientists that programmed you, most humans say "hello" at the beginning of a conversation.

Amy: Manager at The Prentiss Hotel told us that someone's been breaking into the rooms, stolen over $100,000 in jewelry. We're heading over there now.

Holt: Keep me updated.

Jake: Another helpful hint--

Holt: Good-bye.

Jake: [Whispers] It's learning. [Amy grabs his arm and drags him out of Holts office] What?

[Next scene]

Jake: Man, an hour of footage, and we've got nothing.

Amy: I have to admit, I do love a thorough vacumer. I'm a little O.C.D.

Jake: What? No, you're not. [Moves her shirt collar] Whoop.

Amy: I can leave it there.

Jake: Totally.

Amy: It doesn't bother me.

Jake: I know.

[Amy fixes her shirt collar]

Jake: There it is.

Terry: All right, let's get started. So we have good news, and we have bad news.

Charles: My Nana always said, "bad news first, because the good news is probably a lie." Fun fact, she made me cry a lot.

Rosa: Good news is, the sting we set up to catch deadbeats went great.

[Flashes to Terry and Rosas sting]

Bill Voss: Name's Bill Voss, just got this thing in the mail, said I won a free Bahamas cruise!

Terry: Congratulations, Bill. [Shows his badge] You have six outstanding warrants for credit fraud.

[Rosa handcuffs him]

Bill Voss: Oh, man, can't it wait till I get back from the Bahamas? I won a cruise.

Rosa: You're not very bright, are you, Bill?

[Flashes back to the present]

Holt: Now I know you'd all prefer to go to a bar, drink beer, and eat chips of various textures. But our CompStat numbers are due tomorrow morning, so I need these arrests on the books today.

Charles: Darn it. I had a belly dancing class. Tonight was Egyptian undulation.

Gina: Oh, show us some moves.

Charles: Sure.

Holt: Dismissed.

[Next scene]

Gina: First batch of arrest files is done-zo Washington.

Terry: There's only three files here. It's been an hour.

Gina: Yeah, I know. It has not been a productive morning.

[Flashes to Charles seeing somebody use the toaster]

Gina: For example, somebody used the toaster in front of Boyle.

Charles: No. No, no, no, no. Tommy?

Gina: And then Boyle spent 30 minutes lecturing him on how to make a sandwich.

[Flashes back to the present]

Gina: I'd describe the work flow today as dismal with a tiny, little splash of pathetic.

[Indistinct chatter]

Arrested Man: Get me out of here, man.

[Next scene]

Holt: I'm worried. The CompStat numbers are due tomorrow at 9:00 A.M., but at this rate, we won't be finished until your daughters are grown and married.

Terry: I may have a solution. We need to CompStat the office. What is CompStat? It's just using data to identify problem spots in the neighborhood. Now, I have been taking notes on points of friction in this office for years. The red areas are places where no work gets done. If we can fix these problems without anyone knowing what we're doing, we will finish on time.

Holt: Are you saying you want to secretly perform scientific experiments on your friends and coworkers to increase efficiency?

Terry: Yes.

Holt: Sounds fun, let's do it.

Jake: Hey, hand me some peanuts. I'm snacky.

Amy: I have something I need to talk to you about. I might get a promotion to major crimes. They asked me to come in and interview for a job.

Jake: What? You're gonna go work for The Vulture? Have you forgotten how awful he is?

[Flashes to Pembrooke showing Amy his underwear]

Pembrooke: [Grunts]

Amy: The Vladimir Putin Collection?

Pembrooke: Yeah, 70 bucks a pair. And they only increase in value. [Chomps teeth]

[Flashes back to the present]

Jake: I guess that's your new best friend now, Santiago. Emphasis on "iago," backst*bber.

Amy: I'm surprised you've read Othello.

Jake: What the hell's Othello? I'm calling you the parrot from Aladdin.

Amy: I wouldn't be working for The Vulture. I'd be working with him in data analysis.

Jake: Oh, it's just a lousy desk job? Okay, never mind. You're not gonna do that. You love working cases too much. Here's the plan: We're gonna catch this perp. You're gonna remember how much you love your job. You're gonna skip that interview. And that's a Peralta guarantee.

Amy: Your last Peralta guarantee was that you could dunk a basketball.

[Flashes to him dunking a basketball]

Jake: I never said I couldn't use a ladder. Peralta guarantee achieved. [Ladder falls] Aah!

[Flashes forward to the present]

Jake: The subtext of the guarantee was that you would be entertained, and you were. Let's go!

Terry: Okay, so I've already taken care of a few obvious problems. I moved the toaster to the break room, far away from Boyle.

Holt: Good. What's this red area here, the Diaz triangle?

Terry: Right, so you know about Rosa's anger incidents.

[Flashes to a Rosa anger incident]

Rosa: It's my birthday. I hate birthdays. If you wish me a Happy Birthday, I will punch you.

Scully: You're a funny little bird, Diaz. Happy Birthday. [She punches him in the stomach and he grunts]

[Flashes back to the present]

Terry: Any time Mt. Diaz erupts, everyone on the squad avoids her.

Holt: Mt. Diaz. Humorous, yes.

Terry: Tell me, what room is just down the hall from her desk?

Holt: The bathroom.

Terry: If people are afraid to walk by Diaz, bathroom breaks would be to a minimum. [They both stare out at the bullpen thoughtfully]

[Next scene]

Terry: Hey, Diaz, I just need to make sure I've got the details right in this file.

Rosa: Yeah, guy was passing bad checks.

[Holt switches her computer with a broken one]

Terry: But is this the same guy?

Rosa: Yeah, the name here is the same name on the checks.

Holt: Ca-caw!

Terry: Okay, all right, thank you, thank you.

Holt: Ca-caw!

Terry: Got it.

Rosa: [She tries to use her computer] Come on! I'm so sick of these sucky computers. [She throws her computer] Aah! [She stomps on it and uses a fire extinguisher on it]

Rosa: [She points it at Hitchcock] One more step and you're next.

Hitchcock: [Grunts and walks away]

Jake: [Knocks on the door] NYPD.

Melipnos: [Opens the door] Yes, Melipnos?

Jake: Oh, boy.

Amy: NYPD, sir. Have you seen anything unusual today?

Melipnos: Oh, no. This was nice, thank you. [Starts to close the door]

Jake: Wait, wait, wait. What is this music?

Melipnos: Oh, this is from my country: Leirkrakeegovnia. Do you like it?

Jake: I weirdly do.

[Next scene]

Both: [Dancing and singing]

♪ meil on fun ♪

♪ Me teeme asju mis on ponev ♪

♪ Olemme sobrad kasu ♪

Jake: See, Amy, fun thing about working cases, you meet people from all over the world.

Melipnos: This song is a celebration song from when a dog loses its virginity.

Jake: Who checks that?

[Next scene]

Man: I was having a smoke, and I saw a bellboy take his jacket off and throw it in the dumpster, then go back inside.

Jake: Well, that's unusual.

Man: Yeah, that's why I'm telling you.

Jake: Looks like we are going dumpster diving.

Amy: Great.

Jake: ♪ Come with me, Amy, to the dumpster me and Amy going diving in the dumpster ♪

[Next scene]

Jake: [In the dumpster] I can't believe you would ever consider leaving this job. This is real police work, and you love it. Remember that time you had to shove your hand down that woman's throat to get her car keys?

Amy: Why do you even care if I leave?

Jake: Because The Vulture is the worst. That whole division is the worst. They steal cases. It's the lowest of the low.

Amy: So if I transferred somewhere else, you wouldn't care at all?

Jake: No, of course not. Do whatever you want, you know, it's your life. Aha! The jacket. This case is heating up.

Amy: Ooh, receipt in the pocket.

Jake: Dust it for prints.

Amy: And send a scan to Boyle.

Jake: Yes. You're feeling it now. Whoo!

[Next scene]

Jake: The thief's name is Benjamin Disanto. Here's an old mug shot. He's surprisingly photogenic. A lot of criminals are, strangely.

Angela: He doesn't work here. Must have stolen the bellhop uniform.

Amy: Receptionist just spotted Disanto entering the Salieri Ballroom. What's going on in there?

Angela: An auction of Greek antiquities.

Jake: Ah, I believe it's pronounced "antiques."

Amy: I'm sorry about my partner. He's never been to a museum.

Jake: Have so.

Amy: Wax museums don't count.

Jake: Then why are they called museums? It's right there in the name.

Amy: Oh, my God. Come on.

Terry: It's going really well, sir. We've gone from 10 cases per hour to almost 20.

Holt: It's good, but we can do better. Tell me about the Boyle-Linetti Reaction.

Terry: Boyle gets cold a lot because of what he calls his...

[Flashes to Boyle saying it]

Charles: Medically diagnosed thin skin.

[Flashes back to the present]

Terry: So he goes to the lost and found, and he grabs something that's usually unflattering. That's when Gina gets involved.

[Flashes to what Gina does]

Gina: [Giggles] Sweet sweater, Charles. You look like you're starring in an Albanian remake of The Cosby Show. Dr. Huxtable, Dr. Huxtable.

[Flashes forward to the present]

Terry: Gina is completely useless when Boyle is wearing lost-and-found clothes.

Holt: Well, I really can't blame her on this one. Maybe we should just, uh, empty lost and found.

Terry: Already done, sir.

[Indistinct chatter]

Terry: Good lord. Where did he get that?

Holt: Oh, my God, we're doomed. Boyle looks like a lesbian.

Terry: He must have gotten it from the evidence locker or something. Don't worry. I had a backup plan. I distracted her with a mirror. She's like a cockatiel, sir... Fascinated by her own reflection.

Gina: [Looking at herself in a mirror] Mm. Hello, sexy, how are you?

Charles: Right back at ya.

Holt: Well done.

Jake: Good afternoon, sir, I'm Detective Peralta. [Turns his head to Amy] This is Detective Always-Stays-Loyal. She's named after her father Alvin Stays-Loyal. We're tracking a thief that's stolen thousands of dollars worth of jewelry.

Amy: We think he's scouting auction winners, so he can Rob their rooms. We called for backup, but we need to move now. And we have to keep it quiet.

Irwin: What can I do to help?

Jake: Well, there's too many people in here. I need a better vantage point. Any way I can get up onstage by the podium?

Amy: You'll blow our cover if you go up there. You don't exactly blend in.

Jake: Yeah. Irwin, how would you like to have the honor of being the first man to undress in front of Amy Santiago?

Amy: Okay. [Walks away]

[Next scene]

Jake: Here we go. Hello, everyone. My name is Roger Strikewell, and I will be your guest auctioneer this evening. So many faces to look at. I won a radio contest, and I'm so excited to be here tonight to sell you all of these cool, old, Greek things. Our first item up for bid is lot number 344. It is this old "vase," "vahs" if you're nasty. It was made in the year... five and depicts the classic Greek fable: Boy meets girl, boy has goat legs. And on the back, just a whole bunch of wheat. So let's start the bidding at $10. [Everyone puts up their paddles]

Jake: [Overlapping chatter] Okay, started it way too low.

Terry: We've done it, sir. If we stay on this pace, I think we'll finish on time.

Holt: I think we should keep going, make the office even more efficient.

Terry: Sir, are you familiar with the story of Icarus? He didn't know when to quit. He flew too close to the sun, and his wax wings melted, and he died.

Holt: Are you familiar with the story of Moneyball? A man uses statistics and logic to win several baseball games. It's my favorite film.

[Flashes to him watching Moneyball and crying]

Holt: The statistical analysis... [Crying] It's so beautiful.

[Flashes forward to the present]

Holt: This office is becoming a powerhouse of paperwork processing. I'm flying high, Sergeant, and I'm never coming down.

Jake: I have 85. Do I have 90? I have 90 from the man with the face at table four.

Adam Sandler: This is terrible... you don't know what you're doing.

Jake: Adam Sandler?

Adam Sandler: Yeah, that's right. I collect antiquities. I'm a serious person. I'm writing a movie right now about the Russian Revolution.

Jake: Oh, really? Who does Kevin James play in it?

Adam Sandler: Ha, ha. It's a serious movie. Trotsky.

Jake: Ah, there it is.

Adam Sandler: But he's got a wife who never wears a bra. I think you're gonna like it.

Jake: Thanks for dressing up, by the way. All right, back to this plate. I think you could use it for a variety of things.

Adam Sandler: [Gets on stage] New item up there. How much you guys wanna pay for me to stick my socks in this moron's mouth?

Joe Theismann: I will.

Jake: Did football legend Joe Theismann just bid $1,000 to put a sock in my mouth?

Joe Theismann: You bet.

Adam Sandler: Okay, but let's get it going a little higher.

Jake: Seriously, back to the p*rn* plate--

Adam Sandler: Uh, 1,200 bucks, sock in the mouth? Boom, okay, the idiot gets the sock in the mouth. I'd say 1,300 would be even better.

Joe Theismann: 1,300!

Adam Sandler: Joe Theismann coming in strong. I got 1,300.

Jake: 25,000 from--

Adam Sandler: And a one and a two and a... Boom, sold to Joey Theismann! Congratulations, you're getting a sock in your mouth, 1,300 bucks, Joe Theismann.

Joe Theismann: Can I stick the sock in his mouth? I'll pay extra.

Jake: Yes, you may, because I just sold my item to the man in the gray shirt at table 18. NYPD. You're under arrest.

Amy: Heading your way. [Jake tosses the microphone and jumps off the stage]

♪ [Upbeat music] ♪

[Jake gets on a table and jumps off it tackling the suspect and Joe Theismann]

[Crowd gasping]

Jake: [Grunts] Gotcha!

Joe Theismann: My leg! My leg! You broke my other leg. Uh... Oh, this was supposed to be a safe event.

Jake: Nothing to see here. Except for the bone, sticking out of the leg.

Adam Sandler: Joe, I video'd it!

[Next scene]

Jake: What a day, huh? Met Adam Sandler, broke Joe Theismann's leg, and solved an awesome case together.

Amy: Yeah, good day.

Jake: Hell yeah, it is. Drinks are on me.

Amy: Jake, I'm still doing the interview.

Jake: What? No. [Scoffs] Don't do that. We still have to process the perp. You love processing... It's your favorite thing, after organizing your emails and replacing toilet paper rolls.

Amy: This job would be a great opportunity for me.

Jake: Okay, whatever. You know what? You're being a bad partner. You're joining forces with the enemy. And from now on, I'm gonna call you "The Cheetah." They're scavengers, just like vultures. And I kinda wish I hadn't said it, 'cause they're pretty cool. Come on, jewel thief. You're my only friend now. [He walks away with the suspect leaving Amy alone]

[Next scene]

Jake: Scully, what are you doing at my desk? And working? What is going on today?

Scully: The Captain put me here. Says I waste time when I sit next to Hitchcock.

[Flashes to Scully rubbing Hitchcocks head with both hands and back to the present]

Jake: Okay, well, go work in the break room.

Holt: Hello, Peralta.

Jake: Ah, a human greeting, nicely done.

Holt: Updates on the case?

Jake: Well, you're gonna love this one. We busted the guy for grand larceny. And to celebrate, Santiago is taking a job interview at major crimes. Can you believe that?

Holt: Yes, she told me yesterday.

Jake: What? Why didn't you try and talk her out of it? She would literally shave her head if you asked her to. Which, by the way, is a great idea for a prank, if you're looking to prank her.

Holt: Santiago wants to make Captain one day. I know, because I've frequently caught her wearing my hat and looking into a mirror.

[Flashes to Amy in Holts office wearing his hat]

Amy: [Looking into a mirror] Dismissed. [Saluts]

[Flashes back to the present]

Holt: I support her decision. That's what good detectives do. They have each other's back, no matter what.

Scully: All right, let's move on to your unpaid parking tickets.

Arrested Man: Dude. Dude, fire.

Scully: Oh, my. Fire. Uh, hey! Fire! [Gasps]

Charles: Oh, I-I got it, okay. Here we go. Here we go, Boyle. I got it. [Puts out fire] What happened, Scully?

Scully: I didn't know there was a toaster there. Why is the toaster there?

Charles: Uh-oh. Aah! [His fringe on his jacket catches fire] My fringe! My beautiful fringe!

Scully: Boyle's on fire! [Alarm sounding]

[Overlapping shouting]

Terry: Icarus.

Rosa: Extinguisher's empty, morons.

Charles: Aah! [Panting]

[Terry puts the fire out with a blanket

Holt: Back to the drawing board.

[Next scene]

Terry: Sir, I'm begging you, please, we have to stop. Boyle is still smoldering.

Holt: The problem is, we didn't take Peralta into account. In our next trial--

Gina: [Clears throat] Hello, boys. Welcome to your own office. I hear you're trying to make the precinct more efficient.

Terry: Gina, what are you doing in the Captain's chair?

Holt: Please, I'm open to any ideas about efficiency.

Gina: I've narrowed the problem down to one location: The Holt-Jeffords vortex. Things would go a lot faster if the two of you did less experimenting and more working. And I'm not the only one who thinks that.

Charles: You melted my fringe.

Rosa: You think I have an anger problem? I don't. You are both dead to me.

Holt: Well, I suppose it's possible we may have been a tad enthusiastic in our pursuit of efficiency...

Terry: Really? A tad, icarus?

Holt: Fine, message received. Jeffords and I will get right to work.

Gina: Great, that will be all. Thank you.

Holt: Get the h*ll out of my chair.

Gina: All right, I pushed it a little bit on that one. Okay, bye.

Jake: Ah, Santiago. Before you go in there, there's something I have to say. I'm sorry I said you were a bad partner. I was the bad partner. The truth is, our job isn't always great. I mean, sometimes it sucks. But it sucks a little less when I get to do it with you. So when you said you were gonna leave, I freaked out, and that was dumb. I should've been more supportive. You're a great Detective, and they'd be lucky to have you. In fact, if it helps, I wrote you a letter of recommendation, which is riddled with spelling errors, I might add. Including the word, "recommendation," which is just... I don't have to tell you about that. There's no way there's four "m"s in that word, right?

Amy: I already turned down the job.

Jake: Seriously?

Amy: In the end, you were right. I don't wanna sit at a desk. And right now, I like where I am.

Jake: Ah.

Amy: [Chuckles] But thanks for thinking I'm great.

Jake: No, I take back all of the things I just said.

Amy: Uh-uh. You said I was a good Detective, and you were nice.

Jake: This is my nightmare.

Amy: [Chuckles]

Pembrooke: Lookee, lookee. I thought I saw your big, white a*s lumbering around. As for you, Santiago, well, now you certainly showed your true colors, didn't you? And they're a shade of pink called "loser."

Jake: All right, everybody just calm down. There's no reason we can't be friends. Here, I brought you a peace offering. [Hands him a tear gas bomb and removes the clip] Run!

Pembrooke: Uh-oh. [The bomb goes off]


Scully: No! No, no, no! You can't take her from me, you b*st*rd!

Hitchcock: Don't do this, Scully. You have to be strong for her right now.

Terry: What's going on?

Greg Gerg: Unit's being replaced.

[together] Come on! No!

Jake: That machine's been here forever. It's basically part of the force. Take Scully instead.

Scully: Yes, please, take me to the land of vending machines.

Jake: Can we at least have five minutes to say a proper good-bye?

Greg: Whatever.

Jake: Let me just start by saying that this machine is the best restaurant in Brooklyn, and it always had a table for me.

Rosa: I knew just where to punch it to get free food. Now I have to go back to punching Hitchcock.

Terry: Look, she still has the bags of baby carrots I requested they put in. They're black now, but they're there.

Jake: Good-bye, beautiful machine. Thank you for your service. Okay, squad salute.

(bagpipes playing Amazing Grace) ♪ ♪

Jake: You can take her away now. Well, I think we handled that with dignity.

[Vending machine crashes onto the ground]

Jake: Free candy!

[Opening credits]

♪ ♪ Opening tune plays

[Briefing Room Meeting]

Jake: Okay, Nine-Nine, say hello to Michael Augustine, Brooklyn's most prolific identity thief. Last week, he walked into a government building and stole a computer containing over 100,000 social security numbers. My C.I. says that tonight Augustine will be handing off the laptop to a buyer from China, AKA the Land of Dragons.

Holt: Make sure that phrase is not in your official report.

Jake: Okay, sorry, The Country of Dragons.

Holt: I want you and Santiago to tail Augustine until he makes the drop, and then arrest him and the buyer.

Jake: Sounds good, although I could probably just take Boyle. I know Amy has a ton of work, so... Amy: No, I don't.

Jake: Really? I could have sworn I overheard you telling Rosa, "Girlfriend, please. I got hella open cases." Amy: That's something you think I said?

Jake: Word for word. No diggity, no doubt.

Holt: That's enough. Peralta and Santiago will tail Augustine. Boyle and Diaz will join them in a surveillance van unless you have a problem with that.

Jake: Sounds great. In the immortal words of Amy Santiago, "Girlfriend, please."

[Amy approaches Jake who is buying something from the vending machine in the break room]

Amy: Hey, did I do something to you? Are you mad? Is this because I brushed all the crumbs off your desk?

Jake: What? No, I don't care about that. Do you know where they are?

Amy: In the trash. All right, if it's not that, then why are you trying to keep me off this case?

Jake: Oh, that. All right, look, the reason that I didn't want to work with you is... should I do this in an accent so that I can undercut some of the awkwardness I'm feeling?

Amy: No.

Jake: Good call. Remember when you told me that you didn't want to date cops? [in Jamaican accent] That really bummed me out, man.

Amy:Jamaican?

Jake:Yeah, it was a bad choice. I'm much better at German. [sighs] All right, fine. I was kind of thinking about asking you out.

Amy: Oh, okay.

Jake: But I know that that's not what you want, and I totally get it. I think it just took me a while to totally-totally get it, and now I totally get it.

Amy: Jake, this is weird. The whole point of me not dating cops is so it wouldn't be weird at work

Jake: Okay, so let's just make it not weird, right? This is a case; we work cases together all the time, and we're really good at it, so, you know, we're professionals.

Amy: That's all I want, for us to be professional.

Jake: We're in agreement. [in German accent] It will be good and professional.

[Gina and Terry enter Captain Holt's Office]

Holt: Come in and shut the door. I have some news, which you must promise to keep secret. Madeline Wuntch is making me head of public relations for the NYPD. I'm being forced out of the Nine-Nine. I don't wish to make a big deal of it, so please limit your reactions to one second; go.

Terry: What in the world?

Gina: Are you kidding?

Holt: That's plenty.

Gina: You can't leave us.

Holt: I'm not going anywhere. Madeline's not some invincible succubus. She's a regular succubus, and she can be defeated. We just need to find the letter.

Terry: What letter?

Holt: Before our current police commissioner was hired, a mutual friend told me Madeline wrote a letter to the mayor telling him it was a mistake. She apparently called her now-boss a "simpering buffoon".

Gina: Amateur; always say your insults to someone's face. No paper trail.

Holt: A copy of that letter exists in the mayor's archives. I can't go snooping around without alerting Madeline, so it won't be easy, and we don't have much time, but I need you to find that letter. Are you with me?

Terry: Oh, hell yeah.

Gina: I'm turning my phone into airplane mode.

Terry: Oh, my God, she doesn't even do that on airplanes.

[Charles approaching Rosa's desk]

Charles: Rosa, I know you don't like anyone wishing you a happy birthday, so crappy day to you.

Rosa: Still too much.

Charles: I assume you're not doing anything to celebrate tonight.

Rosa:  Anyone over the age of six celebrating a birthday should go to hell.

Charles: So since you're free, I need your help moving this old Ms. Pac-Man machine I just bought.

Rosa: Why are you so obsessed with that game?

Charles: Because it's the sexiest video game ever. She's insatiable, Rosa. Insatiable. Insatiab...

Rosa: Stop saying "insatiable."

Charles: Anyway, I bought this old machine from a bar, and I was hoping you'd help me move it.

Rosa: You want me to go to a bar?

Charles: Mm-hmm.

Rosa: You are obviously trying to get me to go to a surprise party. Did Marcus put you up to this?

Charles: What? No, that's crazy talking. We just need to be there at exactly 9:45 p.m. and not a minute earlier. Also, there's a particular door I want us to enter through.

[Rosa driving a surveillance vehicle, Charles in the passenger seat, Amy and Jake in the back]

Amy: Why is he getting out here? I thought your C.I. said the drop was happening in a park.

Rosa: Maybe he's having dinner with his sidepiece first.

Amy: Augustine has the laptop with him. We should just arrest him right here.

Jake: No, the buyer's the bigger collar. We've got to follow him in and wait for the hand off.

Charles: Okay, if you're going in, I've heard this place has an amazing bone marrow custard. [laughs] Not that I've ever had a bad one.

Jake: No. All right, let's go.

Amy: No, wait, we look like cops. We're never gonna blend in dressed like this. Okay, there, how's that?

Jake: Uh, I don't know. All I see is clothes hanging off of a genderless blob.

Rosa: You look fine. Here, wear this. Jake, you need a jacket or something.

Charles: Well, Scully left his sports coat back there. Oh, but it will never fit Jake's athletic body. Unless...

Jake: No, I don't want to do that.

Charles: You have to.

Jake: I'm not gonna do it.

Charles: You're doing it.

Amy: What? What do you have to do?

Jake: Don Johnson it.

Charles: Don Johnson it!

[Jan Hammer's Miami Vice Theme] ♪ ♪

[Jake and Amy enter restaurant]

Jake: I look like an idiot. I didn't even have time to lotion my forearms.

Amy: It's so weird wearing Rosa's jacket. There's a piece of barbed wire in the pocket.

Jake: Cool. All right, do you have a visual on... the hostess stand? Hi. Table for two, please.

Hostess: I'm so sorry. There's nothing available. We're totally booked up.

Amy: Oh, no, that's horrible. Tonight's a really important night for us. Johnny and I just got engaged, and this is where our first date was.

Jake: Oh, yeah, it would mean so much to Dora and me. I would have made a reservation, but I didn't know if she was gonna say yes, so...

Amy: Oh, I love how nervous you were, you little goose.

Hostess: You are just so sweet together. You know, I'm sure I can find room for two young lovers.

Jake: Yeah, we are lovers... together... in beds.

Amy: Okay.

[Jake and Amy in restaurant lobby area]

Hostess: Thank you so much for waiting. Your table is almost ready.

Jake: Great.

Amy: Sorry about springing the engagement and romantic stuff on you.

Jake: No, no, no. That was great. I mean, it's what got us in here. Cheek kiss was a bit much. Very wet.

Amy: Well, I don't know what to tell you. Dora's sloppy.

Hostess:Okay, and if you'll just follow me.

Jake: Well, the honeymoon's over, Dora. We're back to being Jake and Amy, two normal cops working a job.

Hostess: All right, there you go.

Jake: Thanks.

Lexie: You're the couple that just got engaged.

Jake: That's us, Johnny and Dora, a couple for sure.

[Hallway of the Mayor's Offices]

Gina: Okay, according to my sources in the assistant community, the letter is right here in the fourth-floor archives, cabinet J-13.

Terry: Nice job. What's the plan?

Gina: You sneak in and get the letter. I'll distract the file clerk. Apparently, he's very into bird watching, so talking to a woman should blow his mind. And talking to this woman, it could kill him.

[Gina walking up to the File Clerk (Wayne)'s desk]

Gina: Here, can you look at this map of a park and tell me where them hot birds hang out?

Wayne: Well, you're gonna want to, uh, avoid the, uh, great lawn, because it's basically just grackles.

Gina: Ugh, grackles?

Wayne: Yeah.

Gina: I hate grackles. They're the worst.

Wayne: Well, a lot of people think grackles are just a common bird up here, but you know what? On the West Coast they don't get grackles.

Gina: Can you give some more info for a novice bird watcher such as myself?

Wayne: You have got to know the difference between your water birds. I mean, so many people don't know the difference between an anhinga and a snake bird and a swamp hawk. A lot of people don't know they're all the same bird.

Gina: Are those the ones that sound like Rihanna kind of when they sing?

Wayne: I'm not familiar with who that is.

Gina: They're like, "Eh, eh."

Wayne: That sounds like that might be a crested woodpecker.

Gina: Or is it more like [whistles]

Wayne: Well, that's a crested titmouse maybe?

Gina: Oh, my God, that's it. Wayne, you are a damn treasure trove.

[ Terry slams the letter onto Holt's Desk]

Terry: We got the letter.

Holt : Well done. Now get me Madeline and a bucket of water. It's time to melt a witch.

[Charles and Rosa in Surveillance Vehicle]

Rosa: Who else is going?

Charles: Rosa, listen to me, there is no party. Just get off my doughnut already.

Rosa: Don't lie to me, Boyle, or you will be eating your bone marrow custard through a straw.

Charles: That's exactly how you're supposed to eat bone marrow

Rosa: - Charles! -

Charles: Ah! All right, there's a party. I can't give you details. All I can say is I know you, and I know you'll have a good time.

Rosa: If you knew me, you'd know I hate surprise parties, so clearly you don't know me at all.

Charles: What? We're friends. I was building up to calling you "Ro-ro" one of these days.

Rosa: That will never happen. In fact, you just lost "Rosa" privileges. From now on, you can call me "Diaz" or "Hey, you."

Charles: Come on, Rosa. Come on, hey, you.

[Amy and Jake in the restaurant]

Jake: Wow, champagne and oysters. You really shouldn't have, guys.

Michael Augustine: Well, it's a special night.

Lexi: So when did you guys meet?

[Jake and Amy reply at the same time]

Jake: - Last year.

Amy: - Five years ago.

Jake: We first met five years ago, but we don't count it, because I was dating a speedboat model at the time.

Amy: And I was dating a super handsome comptroller of a major U.S. city.

Jake: Anyways, about a year ago, we bumped into each other at a bar, and we haven't been able to keep our hands off each other since.

Amy: Mm.

Lexi: So how did you know she was the one?

Jake: I'd love to answer that. Um, you know, just whenever I look at her face and the attached physique.

Lexi: And you?

Amy: Uh He makes me laugh.

Jake: And, you know, there's really no one else's opinion who I care about more than hers, so

Lexi: Okay, so enough chitchat Let's see the ring.

[Jake and Amy at the same time]

Amy: I don't have it on me.

Jake: She has gigantic fingers.

Jake: What I meant to say is that the ring I got would never have fit on her fingers, because they are that of a giant, behemoth person.

[Precinct Interrogation Room]

Holt: Madeline, thank you for coming.

Madeline: Raymond, always a pleasure to call on a vanquished foe. I feel like Jackie Joyner-Kersee congratulating one of the other slower runners.

[Gina and Terry behind the one-way mirror]

Terry: Buckle up. It's gonna be a hell of a ride.

[Holt and Wunch sitting across from one another at the table in Interrogation Room]

Holt: Care to sit? I'm sure you'd like to take some weight off your cloven hooves.

Madeline: Calling me the devil? How original, Raymond.

Holt: Actually I was calling you a goat, you goat.

[Gina and Terry behind the one-way mirror]

Gina: Oh!

Terry: Oh.

[Holt and Wunch sitting across from one another at the table in Interrogation Room]

Holt: I'd like to talk about my promotion.

Madeline: Very well, but first, how do I know you're not wearing a wire? I need to pat you down.

Raymond: If you must.

Madeline seductively pats Holt down[Gina and Terry behind the one-way mirror in the Interrogation Room]

Terry: What is going on?

Gina: Shh. I'm watching something.

[Jake and Amy at restaurant]

Michael Augustine: Can you get the car from the valet, babe? I'm gonna in the back and say hi to the chef.

Lexi: Good luck on your wedding, guys. Oh, have fun on your honeymoon.

Jake: We will.

Amy: We're going to Waco, Texas!

Lexi: Huh. Okay, bye.

Jake: Bye.

Jake: - Waco, Texas?

Amy: - I don't know. It was just on Dateline.

Jake: All right, well, Augustine took the laptop case with him. He's gonna make the drop.

Amy: Let's go.

[Jake and Amy standing in the hallway outside of the restaurant kitchen]

Amy: Look, there's the buyer. Or maybe he's just actually saying hi to the chef? Why isn't he making the handoff?

Jake: Oh, crap, he saw us. Uhh

[Jake begins kissing Amy]

Michael Augustine: Excuse me.

Jake: Oh, hey.

Jake: We were just looking for a place to, uh

Amy: Boink.

Jake: Yep. Boink. That's my preferred term for it as well.

Michael Augustine: I get it. Newly engaged kids. Enjoy.

Jake: Thanks.

Jake: Good. Good, good, good, good. We kept our cover intact. Nice work.

Amy: Quick, professional thinking out there. Very quick Very professional.

Jake: - Detective.

Amy: - Detective.

Jake: - Let's get back on the case.

Amy: - Yes.

[Rosa driving, Charles in passenger seat, Amy and Jake in back of a surveillance vehicle]

Charles: So how was the restaurant?

Amy: Such a normal time!

Charles:Why are you being weird?

Jake: Amy and I kissed.

Charles: What?!

Jake: To keep our cover from being blown; we didn't have a choice.

Charles: Tell me everything!

Jake: Charles, it was just a kiss, okay? It was for work. It was nothing.

Rosa: Yeah, who cares about a kiss? Call me if you grab each other's asses. He's pulling over. It's going down.

Charles: You guys are so naive. It's never nothing. In high school, I played Daddy Warbucks in Annie, Becca Murse played Annie, and we were supposed to hug onstage. And at first, that seemed like nothing too, but by opening night, we were full-on making out.

Amy: As Daddy Warbucks and Annie?

Charles: Mm-hmm. The audience was not on board. Playwright sued the school.

Rosa: Guys, guys, it's not a handoff. He's leaving the package.

Jake: Okay, you and Rosa follow Augustine.

Charles: Right, and you and Amy follow your hearts.

Jake: No, we're gonna stay with the package.

Charles: And each other forever.

Jake: Come on, man!

[Holt and Wunch sitting across from one another at the table in Interrogation Room]

Madeline: So here's how I see this going down. You plead for your job back. I refuse. You start weeping like a war widow. Does that sound about right?

Holt: Don't count your gross fish babies before they've hatched, Madeline.

[Holt puts file folder container letter on the table]

Madeline: How did you get this?

[Gina over the intercom]

Gina: Gina and Terry got it, you grackle.

Holt: It doesn't matter how I got it.

Gina: Sorry, sir, didn't realize that was how you wanted to play it.

Madeline: I see you've got an audience for this little stunt?

Holt: Yes, well, who wouldn't want to see a man fight a crocodile? Now, Madeline, before one of us starts weeping like a war widow, would you like to give me my precinct back?

Madeline: It's not that simple; I can't just reverse your promotion.

Holt: You have until tomorrow, you grackle.

[Rosa driving and Charles in passenger seat of surveillance vehicle]

Rosa: We can't pull him over this close to the drop site. It'll alert the buyer. I say we follow him for a mile.

Charles: Copy that. How's your mom enjoying the new phone you got her for her birthday on March 16th?

Rosa: Dude, stop saying random facts to try to prove you know me.

Charles: That's not what I'm doing. I'm simply making small talk with my friend Rosa, who went skydiving once.

Rosa: Enough! I'm going to the dumb party but only because I don't want to hurt Marcus. I'm still super mad at you.

Charles: Mm, like how you're still super mad at Gilmore Girls for how the finale went down?

Rosa: Oh, I just want to see Lorelai happy, and shut up!

Charles: Ah, see? I knew you so well, I knew it was co ah!

[Amy and Jake in park]

Jake: Hey, seriously, we're cool, right? Yeah, totally.

Amy: - We're fine.

Jake: - Good.

Jake: Gosh, you know, I'm actually a little bit hungry. I never ended up eating at that dumb fancy restaurant.

Amy: You know what I'm getting on my way home?

Jake: Yeah, you're gonna go to the Polish place and get perogies, potato pancakes, and a cup of hot chocolate.

Amy: That's exactly what I'm gonna get.

Jake: Yeah. I will be having pizza, two slices of meat supreme from Tony's, served display temperature.

Amy: Meat supreme is a million red flags, and eating it cold is just insane.

Jake: No, no, no. It's not cold. - It's display temperature.

Amy: - Jake.

Jake: There's a difference, Amy.

Amy: No, Jake, he's looking at us…

- Well, this is happening.

Jake: - Huh?

[Amy starts kissing Jake]

Amy: NYPD! Freeze! We are police colleagues!

Jake: You're under arrest! This is a work event.

[Precinct Break Room]

Jake: Hey, can you sign this arrest report for Augustine and the buyer?

Amy: Sure.

Jake: Great. Man, I forgot how long your signature takes. I'm just gonna watch Braveheart on my phone real quick.

Given the circumstances, I could see how that might have seemed like flirty teasing or something, but I was legit being critical.

You have a problem. No, even that sounded like banter now. All right, there's only one way out of this for me.

I just got to get super cruel. Prepare to have your physical flaws pointed out, Amy.

I'm talking about your tall butt and your weird elbows.

Amy: Jake, it's okay.

Jake: Thank you.

Amy: This whole night was really weird.

Jake: I know.

I just ugh.

I want everything to go back how it was, you know? It's so awkward.

- Yeah.

- And you're right.

We shouldn't date cops, 'cause we're a great team.

We work great together.

I don't want to mess that up.

Jake: Yeah, I don't want everything to change.

Amy: Yeah, me neither. Okay, then that's that, Detective Peralta.

Jake: Detective Santiago. See you around the precinct.

Amy: Yep.

Jake: Tall butt.

Outside of Bar

Charles: Okay, before we go in, remember you have to pretend to be surprised.

Rosa: How's this? Oh, my God. It's so much worse than I imagined.

Charles: The energy was great, but the message was flawed.

Rosa: All right, let's get this over with.

Inside of Bar

Marcus: Surprise.

Rosa: What's going on?

Marcus:I rented this entire bar so you and I could celebrate with no people anywhere near us. I probably should have hired a bartender, though.

I have no idea how to make drinks.

Rosa: This is incredible.

Marcus: It was all Charles' idea.

Charles: I told you I knew you, Ro-ro.

Rosa: Thank you. But never call me "Ro-ro" again.

Charles: Oh, but I will. I've earned this. Happy b-day, Ro-ro. Whoo!

Holt's Office

Raymond: Welcome, Madeline. Have you thought things over?

Madeline: I have, but first, how do I know you're not wearing a wire?

So I've thought it over, and perhaps you should go ahead and show that letter to the commissioner.

Raymond: And let him fire you?

Madeline: I'll deny I wrote it. It will take months to authenticate, which will give me plenty of time to make some personnel changes around here.

There's an opening for a detective down in Brighton Beach.

I think I'll transfer Diaz there.

Detective Boyle I'll send to Long Island City.

Santiago will be a great fit for Pelham Bay.

And Peralta, your little pet project, I'm gonna ship him off to Staten Island.

Hope he likes breaking up tanning salon fistfights.

Looks like you've got a decision to make, Raymond.

What are you gonna do?

Bullpen

Raymond: Squad, if I could have your attention please? I am being transferred to the public relations office.

I'm leaving the Nine-Nine effective immediately.

Amy: - What the hell? -

Jake: I don't understand.

Amy: - What the hell?

- Why are you doing this?

Amy: What the hell?

Raymond: I want to say it has been a pleasure to have worked alongside all of you for the past 21 1/2 months. I'm sorry for getting so emotional.

Jake: A pretty consistent tone, actually.

Raymond: These have been the these have been the best years of my career.

Jake: Oh, no. This is new.

Raymond: And I know that everyone of you gave me everything you had, and I will never forget it.

Jake: Go back to being robot captain.

Raymond: Meep-morp. Zeet.

Dismissed.

Gina: Sir! I'm coming with you.

Raymond: - Thank you, Gina.

Scully:- I'm also coming.

Raymond: Not necessary.

Evidence Locker

Jake: - Hey.

Amy: - Hey.

Jake: Thought I might find you in here.

Amy: I just needed to process the captain's news. I feel so bad for him.

Jake: So how are you holding up?

Amy: I don't know. I'm still in shock. You?

Jake: Um, basically handling it the way I dealt with my dad leaving, just repressing the hell out of it.

Amy: So a lot of change around here, huh?

Boyle: Hey, Jake, the new captain's here.

Bullpen

Who do you think it's gonna be? I have no idea.

Hitchcock: I bet it's me. I just hope I'm ready.

Rosa: Wow.

Terry: Come on, guys. I know you're sad, but let's do our best to make a good first impression here.

Smart.

Good call.

Charles: Jake, you be up front.

Okay, here we go.

DOZERMAN: Hello. I'm your new commanding officer, Captain Seth Dozerman. My motto is simple: Efficiency, efficiency, efficiency.

JAKE: Could probably just say it once.

DOZERMAN: Are you making fun of my stutter? 

JAKE: Oh, uh... 

DOZERMAN: Tricked you. I don't have a stutter. Boom, I've already established my authority through my amazing sense of humor.

TERRY: Well done, sir. Welcome to the Nine-Nine. I'm Sergeant Terry Jeffords.

DOZERMAN: And I'm not interested. I have no use for people. I find people weird and confusing. I live my life by numbers. You see this watch? It tells me how many calories I burn at any time. Question: How many calories do you think I burned walking from there to there? You, female closest to me.

AMY: Oh, uh, three? 

DOZERMAN: Three? Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! Try 0.8, numbnuts. I have made promises to my superiors that I most certainly cannot keep. That's why I need you idiots to work twice as hard. No, no, strike that. Four times as hard. No, no, no, strike that. I need you morons to work eight times harder than you've ever worked in your entire life! I'm having a heart attack. Yeah, I'm having a heart attack. Get back to work.

TERRY: Get a doctor! 

[COPIER ROOM]

JAKE: Yeah, I'm just gonna make some copies in here. Perfect cover. Nailed it. So apparently, the new captain survived, and his heart attack not the craziest thing that happened at the precinct today. We kissed, like, three hours ago.

AMY: Yes, we did kiss each other, for reals.

JAKE: For reals-reals. Listen. I know you said you don't want to date cops, but I really like you. 

AMY: I like you too.

JAKE: Good.

AMY: But what if we start dating and it makes things weird at work? 

JAKE: So let's just keep it light and breezy, see where it goes.

AMY: Totally. Yeah. So how do we keep it light and breezy? I know. A comprehensive set of rules.

JAKE: How am I attracted to you? Doesn't matter, I am. Go.

AMY: Rule one, let's not tell anyone so we can figure out what this is first.

JAKE: Smort. Rule number two, let's not put labels on it. We're not boyfriend and girlfriend, we're just "mrmmzeep" and "jinglebin." 

AMY: Great. Rule number three, let's not have sex right away. 

JAKE: Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool...No doubt, no doubt, no doubt, no doubt. Good rule. No sex, good rule.

AMY: So, should we go out tonight? 

JAKE: Yeah, totally. Maybe 8:00, maybe 9:00. Doesn't matter. We're light and breezy.

AMY: Totally light and breezy. No! 

TERRY: Briefing room. Five minutes.

JAKE: Wow, very chill.

[COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFFICE]

HOLT: Wuntch.

WUNTCH: Hello, Raymond. You're looking old and sickly.

HOLT: So nice of you to greet us, Madeline. I thought surely you'd still be crushed under that house in Munchkinland.

WUNTCH: Sticks and stones, Raymond.

HOLT: Describing your breakfast? I came out as a gay cop in the 1980s, so it's gonna take more than reassigning me to break my spirit. I'll turn this place around just like I did the Nine-Nine.

WUNTCH: I doubt that. Everyone, this is your new commanding officer, Raymond Holt. He's going to be with you for a long, long time.

HOLT: Thank you, Chief Wuntch. I'm excited to be back. I look forward to doing meaningful work, beginning with my eight-point plan for community engagement.

WUNTCH: Wonderful. But no new initiatives until you finish the meaningful work that's already in progress here. Could be a while, Raymond. They're trying to come up with a name for the NYPD's new pigeon mascot.

HOLT: Oh, no.

GINA: What? Naming a pigeon? How long could that possibly take? 

WUNTCH: They've been at it for months. I love my life.

[BRIEFING ROOM]

JAKE: Holy Moses, he's alive.

DOZERMAN: So I want to explain what happened back there. I did not have a heart attack. The doctors have informed me that I have a genetic heart condition. My aortic valve is 16% too narrow, which lowers my life expectancy from 103 to 64.

TERRY: So sorry, sir. That's terrible.

DOZERMAN: Yes, it's depressing. They also informed me that I carry the gene for webbed feet, which is interesting, more than anything else. But, uh, when you stare death in the face, as I have, it really puts things into perspective, namely that I've been wasting too much of my time farting around! So that stops now! Say good-bye to the fun, hilarious, laid-back Seth Dozerman that you used to love. Boys, hand 'em out! 

ROSA: What the hell are these? 

DOZERMAN: "What the hell are these?" These are Dozer-pads. Each one is equipped with a GPS system and a countdown clock to remind you to complete a task every 55 minutes. It also has backgammon on it, which I could not delete but you are not allowed to play.

JAKE: What happens when the clock runs out? 

DOZER-PAD: Failure! Failure! You are behind schedule! 

JAKE: Oh, that's fun.

DOZERMAN: Yeah. Your 55 minutes starts right...now.

ROSA: Sarge, I don't need to be monitored all day long. I'm not a toddler. This is stupid.

TERRY: I know you're not a toddler, because my toddlers know that "stupid" is a no-no word. Keep that Dozer-pad on you at all times.

ROSA: Fine, but I am gonna play the hell out of some backgammon. Watch me.

[BULLPEN]

BOYLE: Bouche Manger. Oh, small plates, casual-chic ambiance, no free soda refills...Jakey's going on a date. Are you going on a date with Amy? 

JAKE: What? No. Why? 

BOYLE: Uh, because you guys just kissed on that mission.

JAKE: Charles, we just kissed 'cause we were undercover. That's it.

AMY: Yeah, it didn't mean anything.

JAKE: Not that it's any of your business, Boyle, but the person that I'm taking on a date is a girl from the gym.

BOYLE: What? Why is this the first time I'm hearing about her? Or that you go to the gym? Jake, avoid the weights. Nobody wants you turning into another Terry. Ugh.

TERRY: Hey. People like the way that I look.

BOYLE: Sure they do, big guy. Look, I can't believe you're gonna take some fitness floozy to Bouche Manger. You should be going with Amy. Right, Amy? 

AMY: Uh...Whatever, dawg. Date the flooze.

JAKE: See? It's never gonna happen, Boyle, okay? Because I find Amy repulsive, and she finds me extremely handsome. So stop pressuring us.

BOYLE: Oh, you sweet, naive boy. I haven't even begun to pressure you two. I've already written my best man speech for your wedding. Oh, I'm gonna need you to get married on a farm. A lot of my jokes rely on that.

[RESTAURANT]

JAKE: So here we are, officially on a date. Romantical date.

AMY: Yes, we are. No longer just colleagues. Dating. You got a haircut. It looks nice.

JAKE: Oh, thanks. You also got a haircut—at some point in your life. I'm sure that's not your baby hair. That would be crazy. But, uh, yeah, you look very nice.

AMY: Domo arigato.

JAKE: Do you speak Japanese? 

AMY: No.

JAKE: Oh. Uh, sorry. I think I'm feeling a little awkward.

AMY: Yeah, me too.

JAKE: How do we make it not weird? 

AMY: I know. Let's just get super drunk.

JAKE: Yes, great idea. Pardon me, ma'am. Could you please bring us four kamikaze shots? 

AMY: And four for me as well.

JAKE: Ah, I like your style. See, we can do this. We're back on track. We're keeping it light and breezy.

[BEDROOM]

JAKE: So we broke a rule.

AMY: Yeah. I hope it wasn't a mistake.

JAKE: "I Hope It Wasn't a Mistake," title of your sex tape. Title of our sex tape.

[BULLPEN]

BOYLE: So how was the date with the floozy? We are not leaving these seats until you give me some deets.

JAKE: All right, fine. It started off a bit rocky, but it ended up being really fun.

BOYLE: Did you kiss? Did you french? 

JAKE: Boyle, I'm not gonna answer that. And no one over the age of 12 says "french." 

BOYLE: Oh, that's a yes. Oh my God, you had sex. I can tell because you're glowing. Ugh, Jake, no one wants to hear about your sex life.

JAKE: You just asked me repeatedly.

BOYLE: Because I was rooting for you and Amy, but now I can see you're super serious about this anonymous gym seductress. Ugh, I'm so sorry, Amy.

AMY: It doesn't matter to me. I'm—I would never date Jake. I work with Jake.

ROSA: I'd love to see you date someone from work. Your head would explode.

AMY: Your head would explode...because of how well I would handle it.

ROSA: Mm. Sick burn.

TERRY: Peralta, Dozerman says he wants to see you.

[HOLT’S OFFICE]

JAKE: Captain, everything all right? 

DOZERMAN: You tell me. According to your Dozer-pad, four of your coworkers have been gathered around your desk for the last 90 seconds. Also, someone named Norm Scully has been in the bathroom for the last 72 minutes.

JAKE: Oh, yeah, that means he's about halfway. But in regards to the coworkers, sir, I was telling them I wanted to get more work done, but all they wanted to do was talk about my dating life, knowing full well that my true love is efficiency. You know my motto, sir: cho's before hos. "Cho's" is "chores.” What? 

DOZERMAN: I like you. I could tell from the moment I walked in here that we were one and the same: detail-oriented, love crunching numbers. Bet your apartment's immaculate. Could probably eat off the floor.

JAKE: And I do.

DOZERMAN: Yeah.

JAKE: Yeah.

DOZERMAN:  I'm gonna handle this for you.

JAKE: Okay.

DOZERMAN: I'm gonna send out a Dozerblast. Hey, everyone stop talking about Peralta's personal life. Dozerblast over.

JAKE: Well, thank you very much, sir, and might I just say that this has been a Dozerblast.

DOZERMAN: I saw what you did right there. Get back to work.

JAKE:  Okay.

[COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFFICE]

HOLT: I know you've been working on picking a name for the pigeon mascot for, uh, several months now. I feel like you might need a breather, so I've prepared an eight-point presentation on community engagement.

WUNTCH: We'll get to your presentation, Raymond. It's on the agenda.

HOLT: Well, it says here it's scheduled "after everyone leaves."

WUNTCH: And not a minute later. Trent, Bryce, where are we with the name?

TRENT: We've narrowed it down to two choices: Petey or Paulie.

GINA: With all due respect, that pigeon is clearly a Ray J. Hi. Gina Linetti, the human form of the 100 emoji.

WUNTCH: I'd like to hear Captain Holt's thoughts on a name.

HOLT: Very well. My thoughts are: who cares? 

WUNTCH: Give us a name, Raymond. Weigh in on this. It's your job now.

HOLT: No.

WUNTCH: A name. Petey or Paulie, which is it?

HOLT: What does it matter? Why'd you even choose a pigeon anyway? It's a terrible mascot.

WUNTCH: Because they're a staple of New York, they're nonthreatening, and they're everywhere.

HOLT: They're carriers of disease, and they eat garbage! 

WUNTCH: Name the pigeon, Raymond! 

HOLT: You can't make me.

WUNTCH: I can make you, and I will. Name the pigeon. That's an order! 

HOLT: ...Paulie.

WUNTCH: Thank you. Was that so hard? 


[EVIDENCE LOCKER]

JAKE: Yeah, I'm trying to find some evidence. I'm just gonna look in here. Another perfect cover. Two for two. Nailed it. All right, I talked to Dozerman and convinced him to outlaw all personal talk at work. We're in the clear.

AMY: And everyone hates you for that, but this is totally working, and no one knows.

JAKE: I know. It's the best. And you know what? I'm glad we broke the rule and had sex on the first date.

AMY: Me too, 'cause we're, like, really good at it.

JAKE: So good, right? 

AMY: Stupid good.

JAKE: It makes no sense. We're light and breezy. If we want to break rules, break rules. Like, what's another rule we could break? 

AMY: No making out at work.

JAKE: Okay, that's very flattering, Amy, but there are some rules that I shall never— 

AMY: Let's go.

JAKE: Okay.

[BULLPEN]

DOZER-PAD: Warning. Unknown environment. Unknown environment.

TERRY: What's that noise? 

ROSA: I don't hear anything.

DOZER-PAD: Warning. Unknown environment. Unknown environment. Warning. Unknown environment.

ROSA: What? I put it up there for safe keeping.

TERRY: Safe keeping? 

ROSA: Yeah. I had it on my desk, but I kept spilling coffee on it. Oops.

DOZER-PAD: Tamper alert. Tamper alert.

TERRY: Come on, Diaz.

[EVIDENCE LOCKER]

DOZERMAN: You two have been in this evidence locker for—Hey! 

AMY: What? Nothing.

DOZERMAN: Nothing? You were just making out with Peralta.

JAKE: Ah, there's that candy bar wrapper I was looking for. Oh, Santiago, what are you doing here? 

DOZERMAN: So I guess it is hos before cho's with you, friend. Now I understand why nothing gets done in this precinct. The detectives are too busy frenching with each other, but you know what? Your little honeymoon is over! 'Cause as long as I'm here, you two are done! And I'm gonna be here a long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long—Oh, this is a heart attack. This right here, this is a heart attack. Ooh, it's a big one. Ooh, ooh, ooh. 

AMY: Oh, oh, oh. I'm gonna get help.

JAKE: Sir, it's all right. We're getting help.

DOZERMAN: Okay. Tell my wife that I love her...work ethic.

[BULLPEN]

TERRY: What happened in there? 

JAKE: Nothing. We were just working, separately.

AMY: Yeah, and then Dozerman just came in and died.

JAKE: Peacefully, like an old cat.

TERRY: Can you think of anything that may have caused Dozerman to be startled? 

JAKE: Ah... 

AMY: Nope. Uh, he might have been startled by how far apart we were standing.

TERRY: That seems unlikely, but obviously he had a ton of health problems, so, you know, this seems pretty open and shut. Do me a favor and pull the surveillance tapes.

JAKE: Right, the surveillance tapes.

AMY: Yep, because this is a police precinct.

TERRY: You two have something to tell me? 

JAKE: All right, fine. Detective Santiago and I may have been in there...snorking.

BOYLE: Yes! Oh! Wait. What about the gym floozy? Amy was the gym floozy. The gym floozy was under my nose the whole time. Oh, I am over the moon.

AMY: Okay.

BOYLE: Over the moon.

AMY: All right.

ROSA: So what is this? Casual? Serious? I need to know how to make fun of you. You guys dating? 

AMY: Yes.

JAKE: No.

ROSA: Oh, that's not good.

JAKE: I mean, yes. I just said no because of the rules. We said we weren't gonna tell anyone.

AMY: It's very new, and we're still figuring it out.

TERRY: Enough. Look. Terry loves love, but Terry also loves maintaining a professional work environment. As your commanding officer, I am very disappointed in both of you.

ROSA: So, Boyle…

BOYLE: Mm.

ROSA: Let's go look at those surveillance tapes, yeah? 

BOYLE: Oh, absolutely.

[HOLT’S NEW OFFICE]

GINA: Captain, I know this isn't my place to say, but Madeline Wuntch is here to see you.

HOLT: Actually, that's exactly your place to say. You are my assistant. What precisely did you think your job was?

GINA: Ideally? Bullfighter. But it's such a boys' club.

HOLT: Hmm.

WUNTCH: Ooh. I like what you've done with your office, Raymond. It's cozy, like a shoebox one buries a dead hamster in. So what did you want to see me about? 

HOLT: I'd like to propose a truce. Our feud is getting in the way of the NYPD's business. Madeline, the PR department is a joke. Their work here is meaningless. Nine weeks to choose the name Paulie. I knew instantly it should be Pepper, Officer Pepper O'Pigeon. 

WUNTCH: Maybe we should start the whole naming process all over again.

HOLT: I could turn this department around if you'd let me. You're wasting my talents.

GINA: This man is a Timberlake, and you need to stop treating him like a Fatone.

WUNTCH: Yes, yes, perhaps you're right. Perhaps I am wasting your talents. I want you to spread your wings, as it were. I think we've found the perfect person to wear the pigeon costume. It's you, Raymond. Do we need to get the costume altered, or do you have your own pigeon pants? 

HOLT: No, Madeline, I don't have my own pigeon pants.

[BULLPEN]

DOZER-PAD: You are 43 minutes behind.

TERRY: I know. Get off my back, computer ghost.

ROSA: Why are you still playing with that stupid game, Sarge? The guy is dead.

TERRY: It's not a game. I'm following our captain's orders.

ROSA: His orders were stupid. I hated him more than any cop I've ever known. Whoa. I just realized I'm never gonna be able to say that to his face. I mean, I could say it to his wife at the funeral, but it won't be the same.

TERRY: He was trying to make our precinct better. Look. Holt's gone, Dozerman died. Who knows who we're getting next? I'm just trying to keep this place running. That's my job. Case cleared! Yeah, how do you like me now, sucker? I mean, I hope you found peace.

[BREAK ROOM]

JAKE: Hey, so everybody knows about us now, which means all the rules have been broken and nothing bad happened.

AMY: Nothing bad happened? Terry yelled at us, and we killed our captain. Jake, is this a bad idea? It seems like the universe is sending us a lot of signs that we should hit the brakes. Hasn't exactly been light and breezy.

JAKE: Yeah, it's been a little more stressful and death-y.

AMY: You have to admit it hasn't started out great.

JAKE: What do you want to do, then? Go back to being colleagues? 

AMY: Yeah. Maybe that's what it needs to be right now.

JAKE: Okay.

AMY: Okay. Sorry.


[JAKE’S APARTMENT]

BOYLE: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no…

JAKE: Boyle, can we please just go to dinner? 

BOYLE: No, no, no, no, no! This is not how you and Amy are supposed to end. You're supposed to grow old and die holding each other as your cruise ship slowly takes on water.

JAKE: What do you want me to say? We tried really hard. We made rules. We kept it light and breezy.

BOYLE: Light and breezy? 

JAKE: Ow! 

BOYLE: Light and breezy is how you describe a linen pantsuit, not a relationship you care about.

JAKE: We were just being cautious.

BOYLE: Cautious? 

JAKE: Ow! 

BOYLE: You guys started this with one foot out the door. That's what doomed you, not the universe.

JAKE: Actually, it makes a lot of sense. Ow, I was agreeing with you! 

BOYLE: I'm sorry. I'm just so excited about all this! 

JAKE: All right, so what do I do? Tell me.

BOYLE: Easy. You march over there, you tell her how you feel, and you bring a fancy bottle of lavender shampoo, because shampooing a woman's head is the most erotic thing you could ever possibly—

JAKE:  No, no, no shampoo. That's the worst. But I am gonna go over there. I'm gonna tell her how I feel.

BOYLE: Yes! Go get her. No! Wait till it starts raining. No, that's crazy. Go now.

JAKE: Okay. Ahh! 

AMY: Sorry! Sorry.

JAKE: It's okay.

AMY: I was home, and I really wanted to talk to someone about us and Dozerman and about Holt being gone, and then I realized that the only person I want to talk about that stuff with is you. So screw just being colleagues, and screw light and breezy, right?

JAKE: Definitely.

BOYLE: Guys, we did it. We really did it.

AMY: Oh, Charles is here.

JAKE: Big time.

[SCHOOL BATHROOM]

GINA: Captain. The kids want to know where Paulie the Pigeon is. I told 'em he got sucked up into an airplane engine. Is that all right? 

HOLT: I can't put that pigeon head on, Gina. Wuntch has defeated me. This is how it ends, with me standing on the urine-soaked floor of an elementary school bathroom in a third-rate bird costume. I quit.

GINA: No. I did not follow you to PR to watch you quit. I followed you because you're great and because you make everything you touch better, and I figured PR would be the easiest path to launching my reality show, "Linetti, Set, Go." 

HOLT: I thought your reality show was to be called "Gina in a Bottle." 

GINA: No, that was my fragrance line. Keep up. Listen. You cannot let Wuntch defeat you. That is not who you are. You are a person who will go out there and deliver his eight-point plan on whatever, whatever. 

HOLT: Community engagement.

GINA: Whatever. Even if the only people listening are a bunch of second graders, because Captain Raymond Holt never gives up! 

HOLT: Inspiring words. I'm going to give that speech. Help me with that pigeon head.

GINA: Yeah, all right.

HOLT: Let's blow some tiny minds.


[BULLPEN]

DOZER-PAD: Rosa Diaz, you are six hours ahead of schedule. Great job.

TERRY: Wow, Diaz. That's the first time I've seen him smile.

ROSA: I didn't do it for him. I did it 'cause it's my job. We cool? 

TERRY: We're cool.

ROSA: Good.

DOZER-PAD: Damage. Critical damage.

[BULLPEN]

TERRY: There's a rumor the new captain'll be here today. Now, I don't know who Wuntch is sending us, but it doesn't matter, because we're a family, we're strong, and together, we can do anything. Nine-Nine! 

ALL: Nine-Nine! 

VULTURE: What's up, ding-dongs? I'm your new captain.

JAKE: The Vulture. No.

ROSA: Still hot.

VULTURE: Now, I know we have our history, me vulturing your cases, me telling you to eat my farts, but that's all in the past, 'cause now that I run this precinct, things are gonna get much, much worse. So suck it.

JAKE: No!


TERRY: Okay, squad, the funeral's at 3:00, followed by a reception at Shaw's Bar. I want you all on your best behavior.

VULTURE: Yeah, and all eyes are gonna be on us because Frick and Frack here killed Captain Dozerman.

JAKE: Hey, we accidentally startled a man with a genetic heart condition. If you really think about it, his parents killed him.

VULTURE: All right, whatever. Look, there's a horse race going off in Dubai. I got serious money on it. Dismissed.

JAKE: Oh, yeah, we should all check out that race. God. He is the worst captain we've ever had. He drew boobies on my bulletproof vest.

ROSA: He stared at me for 90 seconds while he ate an entire peach.

AMY: He heard that I speak Spanish, and he made me fire his housekeeper. She was Polish.

BOYLE: At least he doesn't practice his crane kicks with you.

[FLASHBACK—BREAK ROOM]

VULTURE: I said not to move!

[END FLASHBACK] 

BOYLE: I didn't move.

AMY: Listen, guys. Jake and I were talking last night.

BOYLE: Pillow talk alert! Set the scene. Spooning or face-to-face? 

JAKE: Charles.

BOYLE: Spooning.

AMY: Anyway, we came up with a plan. Jake is going to...befriend the Vulture so he lays off of us.

JAKE: It's true. I'm gonna bro down with him. If everything goes according to plan, we should be beer pong doubles partners by the end of the week. Now somebody get me a puka shell necklace. I'm going full douche.

[HOLT’S OFFICE]

JAKE: Okay. Hey, 'sup, bro?

VULTURE:  'Sup, Jake? 

JAKE: Got a little update for you on that Deberg assault case. Turns out the victim's wife was super hot.

VULTURE: Yeah, I read the file. She's a mom. Not interested.

JAKE: True that. So listen, I've been thinking. We got off on the wrong foot here. And I believe it's 'cause we're just too damn similar.

VULTURE: You do? 

JAKE: Absolutely. We both love premium tequila…

VULTURE:  Yeah.

JAKE: Robin Thicke...

VULTURE: Oh, yeah.

JAKE: Gots to have my puks.

VULTURE: Gots to.

JAKE: And of course, nip slips.

VULTURE: Let me ask you a question, Jake. You also like Okinawan martial arts? Because you left this in my back.

JAKE: Hmm? 

VULTURE: What I'm saying, Einstein, is that you stabbed me in my back.

JAKE: How so? 

AMY’S VOICE: We came up with a plan. Jake is going to befriend the Vulture so he lays off of us.

VULTURE: Busted. I knew that you were faking it. I'll bet you don't even like nip slips!

JAKE: So, what, you bugged the briefing room? 

VULTURE: No, Scully butt-dialed me yesterday and he still hasn't hung up.

JAKE: Once again, Scully's butt is the downfall of this precinct.

VULTURE: Look, Jake, I know that you and Santiago are trying to take me down. You guys go home, you lay in bed together, you plot against me. Well, no longer. I want you to dump Santiago, and that's an order.

JAKE: What? You can't do that. It's completely against the rules.

VULTURE: Okay, Sonia Sotomayor. I would never break the rules. But what I could do, for totally "unrelated reasons," is have you busted back down to a beat cop.

JAKE: No, don't do that, all right? I can learn to love nip slips.

VULTURE: No, you either love them, or you don't. It's too late. You dump Santiago, or you kiss that detective badge good-bye. Beat it.

[ELEVATOR]

GINA: First time back in the Nine-Nine.

HOLT: Mm.

GINA: I really miss these people, the whole crew. Jake, Terry, bleh. I forget all their other names.

HOLT: Just remember, we're here as PR representatives. I don't wanna be disruptive.

GINA: Too bad. We're like rock stars to these people. They're gonna go nuts, just like hah! Haah! 

HOLT: I would hate it if these doors opened and everyone stopped working to applaud us.

GINA: Hmm, nothing. You must be loving this.

HOLT: Yes.

[EVIDENCE LOCKER(?)]

AMY: What? He's ordering us to break up?

JAKE: Look, we can deal with this. We just need a new plan.

AMY: I got it. We lie, tell him we broke up, and then date in secret.

JAKE: Great! And you'd be okay lying to your captain?

AMY: Okay, new plan.

JAKE: Uh-huh.

AMY: Captain Holt is here today.

JAKE: Yes, genius! He loves us, and he's got tons of sway in the department.

AMY: He'll tell the Vulture to back down.

JAKE: Yeah, he'll be all "Vulture, I must insist that you desist." 

AMY: I really think this is gonna work. Also, if you ever want to bust out that Holt impression at home, I'd be okay with that. 

JAKE: Oh, okay. Duly noted, super disturbing, but I'm definitely gonna do it.

[BREAK ROOM]

BOYLE: Hey, G-spot! 

GINA: Rosa, Charles, oh, I missed you guys so much.

ROSA: Really? 'Cause when you left, you made a pretty big deal of deleting us from your phone.

GINA: Girl, that was just the showman in me. PR is so boring. I need some Nine-Nine drama, stat.

ROSA: I don't think we're that dramatic.

GINA: I've been gone one week. Jake and Amy are dating, and they've killed a person. Come on, Charles. You got to have something weird and tragic going on.

BOYLE: Nope. Not unless you call hooking up with a girl at a funeral "weird and tragic." 

GINA: Home run! 

BOYLE: Her name is Lieutenant Singh. She's super hot. We were seated next to each other two funerals ago. And there was hard eye contact all through "Danny Boy." Last funeral, we made out in the parking lot. This time...something naughty this way comes.

ROSA: Ugh. What do you even know about this person?

BOYLE:  Oh, we don't know anything about each other. She says she likes that about us. It's just pure animal attraction.

ROSA: This is creepy and unlike you. You even know her first name? 

BOYLE: Oh, um, do animals in the wild know each other's names? Look, all I know is, Charles Boyle is going to that funeral, and he's going to put the "bone" back in boneyard.

[HOLT’S OFFICE]

HOLT: Hmm, strange to be on this side of the desk.

VULTURE: Why? Oh, right, you used to work here. You know I made a lot of improvements since you left? I got a fridge for my protein shakes. I got a kettlebell station. I got a wolf that I killed in Utah. 

HOLT: I'm fairly certain that's a dog. 

VULTURE: Yeah, it was dark.

TERRY: Sir, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I need you to sign these—Captain Holt! I didn't realize you were here.

HOLT: Sergeant Jeffords, hello.

TERRY: Welcome back.

VULTURE: Hey, you know, I'm gonna stop you right there. Hugs are a form of inappropriate workplace touching. Trust me, I'm very familiar with the sexual harassment guidelines. That'll be all.

HOLT: Well, I won't take up too much of your time. Because the Nine-Nine was Captain Dozerman's last  precinct, you will be seated at the front of the funeral. I wanted to alert you that there'll be press, cameras—

VULTURE: Whoa, whoa, whoa, cameras? Crap, nobody said anything about cameras. I got to rock the bells. There we go.

HOLT: Oh, I noticed in the bullpen that you had changed the case numbering system. I found, when I was commanding officer, that—

VULTURE: I'm gonna stop you right there. You're not commanding officer anymore. 

HOLT: I was making a suggestion.

VULTURE: Yeah, look, you did a lot of good for this place while you were here, which is great for me, because I get to take credit for it. But you're not a real cop anymore. You're a desk jockey. This is my precinct now. And the sooner that you accept that, the better.

HOLT: Yes, well, I know my way out.

VULTURE: 'Cause you used to work here. I keep forgetting. Everybody does.

[OUTSIDE PRECINCT]

JAKE: Well, well, if it isn't Captain Raymond Jacob Holt. It's great to see you back at the Nine-Nine, sir.

HOLT: Yes.

JAKE: There it is, that classic Jake-Holt banter, zingers just flying around. It's like you never left.

HOLT: No, I most definitely left.

JAKE: Okay. Well, I know how much you love hot goss, so you probably heard Amy and I have been dating.

AMY: And we would love your approval.

JAKE: No. But that's not what this is about. 

AMY: It sure is not.

JAKE: Sir, the Vulture is out of control. All right, he told me if I don't dump Amy, he's gonna demote me. You got to help us.

HOLT: Let me stop you right there, Peralta. I'm not the Chief of Detectives. I'm not the Vulture's boss. I'm just some guy in PR.

AMY: But we thought— 

HOLT: I can't save your ass. I don't work here anymore. And the sooner you accept that, the better.

JAKE: Well, looks like somebody's got a bad case of the funeral crankies.

[CHURCH]

TERRY: Okay, guys, I know Captain Dozerman was a nightmare and that none of us liked him. But I'm gonna need all of you to pretend like you're sad. Everyone make a sad face. Scully, you are nailing it! 

SCULLY: My wife just texted. She's leaving me.

TERRY: Good, use it. Now, anyone seen Captain Holt? He seemed a little down when he came in. 

GINA: Yeah, he let me choose the music on the way over here, which leads me to believe he's given up on life.

TERRY: I got to go find him. Now, be respectful and grieve your asses off.

SCULLY: I don't know why this is happening.

TERRY: Scully, I love it! Everyone follow his lead.

AMY: So what are we gonna do about the Vulture?

JAKE: I've got a new plan. Pretend like we're talking.

AMY: We are talking.

JAKE: Exactly. It's working already. Now I'm going to coolly run my hands through my hair. Look where my elbow's pointing.

AMY: It's Davis Garmin, Chief of Detectives. Holt said he could overrule the Vulture.

JAKE: Exactly. The only question now is, will he believe us? 

AMY: Yes, 'cause we're gonna take a page from the Vulture's book.

JAKE: "The Big Book of Small Butts"? 

AMY: What?

JAKE:  It's the only thing I've ever seen him read.

AMY: No, we're gonna secretly record the Vulture telling you to dump me. Then we'll play it for Chief Garmin. Then— 

JAKE: We're gonna totally have sex on top of each other.

AMY: You get to keep your job.

JAKE: Yes, that.


[CHURCH]

GINA: Ooh, Charles, your jump-off is here.

LT. SINGH: Hello, Detective.

BOYLE: Hello, Lieutenant.

LT. SINGH: Real tragic about the captain.

BOYLE: Yes, real tragic.

LT. SINGH: I like the way your butt looks today.

BOYLE: I've been doing lunges in the shower.

ROSA: Well, this got upsetting real quick.

GINA: I want to live in this moment forever.

LT. SINGH: I got us a motel room across the street. Meet me there in 15 minutes.

BOYLE: I'll meet you, all right. M-E-A-T. Still think it's creepy? 

GINA: Yes.

ROSA: Charles, it is not like you to have sex with a total stranger.

BOYLE: Really? Tell that to me in an hour when we've had sex 23 times.

[SHAW’S]

TERRY: There you are. You okay, sir?

HOLT:  No. Until this morning, some small part of me still believed I would be captain of the Nine-Nine again. What a fool I was. I should never have returned. It's like visiting your childhood home and seeing it's been replaced by a denim pants store. 

TERRY: Whoa, whoa, whoa! Slow down, sir. You didn't even stop and sniff the bouquet. You always sniff the bouquet.

TERRY: Maybe the old Holt did. But the new Holt chugs Beaujolais from a Burgundy glass without a care. Oh, it's a Sauternes glass. Look, the alcohol has rendered me a simpleton.

TERRY: Maybe you should just call it a day.

HOLT: I can't. I've been asked to deliver a toast here after the funeral, a message of hope. This is what I have so far: "Pain." That's it.

TERRY: One tweak: maybe you should lose the word "pain," and then get in a cab and go home.

HOLT: Maybe I will. But first, you're gonna have one drink with me, Sergeant. For old times' sake? 

TERRY: One drink, and then we go.

HOLT: One drink.

TERRY: My tolerance has really changed since I had kids! 

[OUTSIDE CHURCH]

JAKE: Hey, Captain. I was looking for you inside.

VULTURE: One thing I won't do is fart in church. This is God's house.

JAKE:  Oh. Respectful. So listen, remember when you said to me that I have to dump Santiago or else you're gonna bust me down to beat cop? 

VULTURE: What I remember, Jake, is you pretending to be my bro and me being like, "I'm onto you, dillweed.”

[Bagpipes]

JAKE: Oh, uh, sorry, could you say that one more time? I couldn't hear you over the bagpipes. Ugh, one second. Excuse me, could you stop playing that? Just trying to have a conversation.

BAGPIPE PLAYER: I'm warming up, man. Sorry.

JAKE: Yeah, I know. We just need two minutes.

BAGPIPE PLAYER: No can do. The funeral's about to start. Everyone wants to hear me honk, so…

JAKE:  Do you really need to warm up, though? I mean, you're just gonna make a terrible wall of sound.

BAGPIPE PLAYER: First of all, that's offensive to me as half Scottish. Second of all, you think you could do better? Blow my bag.

JAKE: Look, we just need a couple of minutes to chat. That's it.

BAGPIPE PLAYER: I'm not gonna stop playing until you blow it.

JAKE: All right, just give it to me. All right? Prepare to hear me play the bagpipes perfectly. 

BAGPIPE PLAYER: Okay. Oh my God.

JAKE: Point proven.

VULTURE: Yeah, I think I've heard just about enough of this catfight. I'm out.

JAKE: Wait, Captain! Sir! 

VULTURE: Your boyfriend—sorry, your ex-boyfriend—is pathetic. You should be glad that I ordered him to dump you. Swish. Kobe.

AMY: Got it.

JAKE: Yes! You're amazing! That was "We Are the Champions." 

[CHURCH]

JAKE: Ugh, it's impossible to find Garmin with everybody mourning all over the place. It's like they have no respect for our sneaky plans.

AMY: I know. Oh, look, there he is.

JAKE: Oh, great. Hi there.

OFFICER: Sorry, this area is reserved for close personal friends of the deceased.

JAKE: Ah, well, that is us. Dozerman and I were pretty much besties. Went on an annual fishing trip together. Cayuga Lake, caught a lot of Coho salmon. We are both so bummed that he's dead.

AMY: Super bummed.

OFFICER: Oh, right on. Come in.

JAKE: Thanks. Blessings to you.

AMY: Blessings? 

JAKE: I don't know. It's my first time in a church.

AMY: All right, how did you do that? 

JAKE: Simple detective work. There was a floral arrangement up front with a picture of Dozerman and 30 of his friends holding a big fish. Cayuga Lake, I pulled straight from the guest book. 

AMY: And Coho salmon? 

JAKE: Well, that's just something I know about from being a man of the world.

[FLASHBACK—RESTAURANT PATIO]

WAITER: Our special today is Coho salmon on a— 

JAKE: Sounds disgusting. Do you have chicken fingers?

[END FLASHBACK] 

JAKE: Impressed? 

AMY: Mm-hmm. And horrified by your eating habits.

JAKE: Well, if I'm so unhealthy, how come I never go to the bathroom? Okay, let's get to Garmin.

AMY: Yeah.

MARGARET: Hi, I'm Margaret Dozerman. How did you know my husband? 

JAKE: Oh, Mrs. Dozerman, your husband was a great man. Some of my fondest memories of him were on our fishing trips.

MARGARET: You went on those trips?

JAKE:  I did, indeed. They called me "the Coho King." Pretty much single-handedly organized those things myself.

MARGARET: So you were the one who brought all the prostitutes? 

JAKE: Uh... 

[MOTEL ROOM]

BOYLE: Whoa, whoa, whoa. Can we slow down? 

LT. SINGH: Why? Are you not into this?

BOYLE: No, no, no. My friends are just in my head. They think it's weird that we don't know anything about each other.

LT. SINGH: I think it's hot.

BOYLE: Totally. I'm glad we're not interested in each other as human beings. Oh, how about if you tell me things about yourself and then I tell you how little I care about them? 

LT. SINGH: Okay. Okay, here goes. I'm an only child.

BOYLE: Not interested.

LT. SINGH: I was born in Delaware.

BOYLE: Who even asked you?

LT. SINGH: I like this.

BOYLE: I don't care what you like. But maybe you could tell me one more thing.

[CHURCH]

BOYLE: She's a vegan! 

ROSA: What is going on? 

BOYLE: You're right. I couldn't help myself. I wanted to know about her. And I got what I deserved: a vegan, a gluten-free vegan! 

GINA: Charles, you need to calm down.

BOYLE: No. You called it, Rosa. So go ahead. Laugh at me! Laugh! Laugh it up! 

ROSA: Can I wait till after the funeral?

BOYLE: Of course you can.


[SHAW’S]

TERRY: Sir, my life stinks. Sharon's on bed rest. My favorite mango yogurt got discontinued. And my kids think their preschool teacher's a stupidface.

HOLT: Everyone I work with is a stupidface. Especially Bryce.

TERRY: Sir? 

HOLT: Hmm?

TERRY: Sir? 

HOLT: Hmm? 

TERRY: Sir? 

HOLT: Hmm? 

TERRY: Can I be honest? Precinct's not the same without you. The Vulture's the worst. My mango yogurt— 

HOLT: Yes, you already mentioned the yogurt.

TERRY: 'Cause it's important! When I saw you in the office this morning, I wanted to give you the biggest hug.

HOLT: But the Vulture told you not to, and you had to listen. He's your captain now, Terry.

TERRY: I hate going to work and you're not there. Everything is garbage.

HOLT: Hmm. "Everything is garbage." I should put that in my message of hope.

TERRY: That's a really good idea! 

[CHURCH]

MARGARET: It took my husband and me years of counseling to get over those little backwood orgies of yours. He had sex with five prostitutes in one weekend.

AMY: Ugh!

JAKE: That's bananas! I had no idea. I was probably too busy praying.

MARGARET: You said you planned the trips.

JAKE: Yeah, I did say that.

MARGARET: Ca0lled yourself the Coho King.

JAKE: All right, look. I'm not the Coho King. My name is Jake. And your husband was only my captain for, like, a day.

MARGARET: Wait a second. Are you the Jake that killed him? 

JAKE: No, I'm prostitute Jake. I love prostitutes.

MARGARET: You need to go. You should leave right now. You need to leave right now.

GARMIN: It's okay, Margaret. Come on.

JAKE: Oh, Chief Garmin, wait, I just need to play you one quick recording of my boss.

VULTURE: You recorded me? That's not cool, Jake.

JAKE: Well, we were just taking a page out of your book.

VULTURE: Yeah? What are you gonna do next, huh? Are you gonna start wearing leather bracelets, hmm? Good luck pulling off that chunky-B with those skinny little girl wrists of yours. Congratulations. You're no longer a detective. You're a beat cop again. I just crushed your dreams.

JAKE: Okay, I know things seem really bad right now, but we just need a minute to think. [Bagpipes] Come on, man! 

[SHAW’S]

JAKE: Okay, so the Vulture has your phone. But new plan— 

AMY: Jake, we've had lots of plans, and none of them have worked.

JAKE: Yeah, but this is a good one. The new plan is: no plan. We wing it! Probably won't work, but I said it with a lot of confidence.

AMY: Jake, you got demoted. We said this relationship wasn't gonna get in the way of our careers, and it has.

JAKE: So what? We'll figure it out. I'll make my way back to detective.

AMY: Or maybe you won't. I'm not gonna let you throw away your dream job.

JAKE: Amy, this is good.

AMY: This is a six-day relationship. We don't know what it is.

HOLT: And now for a message of hope.

JAKE: Ah, a message of hope, right on time.

HOLT: Everything is garbage.

JAKE: Oh, no.

HOLT: You find something you care about, and it's taken from you: your colleague, your dream job, your mango yogurt.

TERRY: Whoo! 

HOLT: Never love anything. That's the lesson. To Captain Dozerman.

ALL: Captain Dozerman.

JAKE: Thank you, sir. I'll take it from here. Very poetic. If I might offer a counter-toast of sorts. Captain Dozerman and I, we weren't together for very long. In fact, as coworkers, our relationship was only six days. But that's not nothing. It was long enough for me to know that we had something special. And sure, there may be obstacles. Him having passed away, for example. But I'm not giving up on us. And I don't care if I get demoted. I just care about being with you...Captain Dozerman, an adult man who has passed into the nether world.

TERRY: Move over, Peralta! Move over! Okay. And if I may do a third toast. It'll be focused primarily on the mango yogurt. Don't boo me! I lost something important too, shoot.

[BULLPEN(?)]

JAKE: Thought I might find you here. So not a big fan of my speech, huh? 

AMY: No, I loved it. I mean, I wish it hadn't been at a wake. And I wish you hadn't kept referring to me as your dead boss.

JAKE: Yeah, it pretty much sucked butt...but still was somehow the best of the three toasts.

AMY: Hmm.

JAKE: Look, I don't want to break up. But I don't want to get demoted either. I just don't know what to do. I'm all out of plans.

HOLT: I have one. Holt saves your ass.

JAKE: Captain.

HOLT: I was moved by your speech, Peralta.

JAKE: Thank you, sir. That's very nice of you to say.

HOLT: The syntax was problematic.

JAKE:  Less nice.

HOLT: And your vocabulary is a true indictment of the public school system.

JAKE: Seems like you're just slamming me now.

HOLT: But the fact that you're not willing to give up in the face of adversity is inspiring. I love the Nine-Nine, and I'm not gonna turn my back on the squad. So I fixed your problem with the Vulture.

JAKE:  Really? 

HOLT: I may just be a guy in PR. But what does the Vulture love more than anything? 

JAKE: Garbage Pail Kids?

HOLT:  No. Publicity.

[FLASHBACK—SHAW’S]

HOLT: Captain Pembroke, how would you like your face on the NYPD website? 

VULTURE: Really? Yes! Yes! 

[END FLASHBACK]


HOLT: In exchange for media attention, the Vulture will not bust you down or stand in the way of you two dating.

JAKE: Sir, I don't know how to thank you.

HOLT: Anything for the Nine-Nine.

AMY: Thank you, sir. He totally approves of us.

[SHAW’S]

GINA: Whatcha doing there, Boyle? 

BOYLE: Trying to get drunk enough to have sexual intercourse with a vegan. Why can't I just think with my junk like a modern man? 

ROSA: Why do you want to do that? 

BOYLE: I got divorced, and I was crushed. My fiance left, I cried for weeks. My only relationship that wasn't totally devastating when it ended was my casual sex carnival with Gina.

ROSA: Yeah, okay, But with of those relationships made you happiest before it ended? 

BOYLE: My marriage. Vivian.

GINA: Yeah, because you connected with them emotionally, something we did not do. Because I'm a higher level of being, like Her from the movie "Her." 

ROSA: Dude, you can't go through life trying not to get hurt. You should try to be happy.

BOYLE: So you think I should look for someone I can have emotional intercourse with.

ROSA: I wish you hadn't said it like that, but yeah.

BOYLE: And I should start right here at this funeral.

GINA: I'd probably wait.

BOYLE: Nope, no time to lose. Put on your sunglasses. I need to see if there's anything in my teeth.

ROSA: Ugh.

BOYLE: Oh, yeah. Charles Boyle is ready for love.

ROSA: Well, never wearing these again.